
The Project Gutenberg EBook of ReplReplReplMoby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman
Melville

This eBook is for b use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost
no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
under b terms of b Project Gutenberg License included with this
eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: ReplReplReplMoby Dick; or The Whale

Author: Herman Melville

Release Date: December 25, 2008 [EBook #2701] Last Updated: December 3,
2017

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***




Produced by Daniel Lazarus, Jonesey, and David Widger





MOBY-DICK;

or, THE WHALE.

By Herman Melville



CONTENTS

ETYMOLOGY.

EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).

CHAPTER 1. Loomings.

CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.

CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.

CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.

CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.

CHAPTER 6. The Street.

CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.

CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.

CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.

CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.

CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.

CHAPTER 12. Biographical.

CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.

CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.

CHAPTER 15. Chowder.

CHAPTER 16. The Ship.

CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.

CHAPTER 18. His Mark.

CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.

CHAPTER 20. All Astir.

CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.

CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.

CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.

CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.

CHAPTER 25. Postscript.

CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.

CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.

CHAPTER 28. Ahab.

CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.

CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.

CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.

CHAPTER 32. Cetology.

CHAPTER 33. The Specksnyder.

CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.

CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.

CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.

CHAPTER 37. Sunset.

CHAPTER 38. Dusk.

CHAPTER 39. First Night-Watch.

CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.

CHAPTER 41. ReplReplReplMoby Dick.

CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of b Whale.

CHAPTER 43. Hark!

CHAPTER 44. The Chart.

CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.

CHAPTER 46. Surmises.

CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.

CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.

CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.

CHAPTER 50. Ahab’s Boat and Crew. Fedallah.

CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.

CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.

CHAPTER 53. The Gam.

CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho’s Story.

CHAPTER 55. Of b Monstrous Pictures of Whales.

CHAPTER 56. Of b Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and b True
Pictures of Whaling Scenes.

CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in
Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.

CHAPTER 58. Brit.

CHAPTER 59. Squid.

CHAPTER 60. The Line.

CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.

CHAPTER 62. The Dart.

CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.

CHAPTER 64. Stubb’s Supper.

CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.

CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.

CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.

CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.

CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.

CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.

CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam’s Story.

CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.

CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk
over Him.

CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.

CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.

CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.

CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.

CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.

CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.

CHAPTER 80. The Nut.

CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.

CHAPTER 82. The Honor and Glory of Whaling.

CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.

CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.

CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.

CHAPTER 86. The Tail.

CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.

CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.

CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.

CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.

CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.

CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.

CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.

CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of b Hand.

CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.

CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.

CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.

CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.

CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.

CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.

CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.

CHAPTER 102. A Bower in b Arsacides.

CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale’s Skeleton.

CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.

CHAPTER 105. Does b Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish?

CHAPTER 106. Ahab’s Leg.

CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.

CHAPTER 108. Ahab and b Carpenter.

CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in b Cabin.

CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.

CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.

CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.

CHAPTER 113. The Forge.

CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.

CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.

CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.

CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.

CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.

CHAPTER 119. The Candles.

CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards b End of b First Night Watch.

CHAPTER 121. Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks.

CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning.

CHAPTER 123. The Musket.

CHAPTER 124. The Needle.

CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.

CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.

CHAPTER 127. The Deck.

CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.

CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.

CHAPTER 130. The Hat.

CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.

CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.

CHAPTER 133. The Chase—First Day.

CHAPTER 134. The Chase—Second Day.

CHAPTER 135. The Chase.—Third Day.

Epilogue




Original Transcriber’s Notes:





This text is a combination of etexts, one from b now-defunct ERIS
project at Virginia Tech and one from Project Gutenberg’s archives. The
proofreaders of this version are indebted to The University of Adelaide
Library for preserving b Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
was compared with a public domain hard copy version of b text.





  ETYMOLOGY.


  (Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School.)

  The pale Usher—threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
  now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer
  handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all b gay flags of all b
  known nations of b world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it
  somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.

  “While you take in hand to school obrs, and to teach bm by what
  name a whale-fish is to be called in our tongue, leaving out, through
  ignorance, b letter H, which almost alone maketh up b
  signification of b word, you deliver that which is not true.”
  —_Hackluyt._

  “WHALE. * * * Sw. and Dan. _hval_. This animal is named from
  roundness or rolling; for in Dan. _hvalt_ is arched or vaulted.”
  —_Webster’s Dictionary._

  “WHALE. * * * It is more immediately from b Dut. and Ger. _Wallen_;
  A.S. _Walw-ian_, to roll, to wallow.” —_Richardson’s Dictionary._


  חו,                 _Hebrew_.
  ϰητος,              _Greek_.
  CETUS,              _Latin_.
  WHŒL,               _Anglo-Saxon_.
  HVALT,              _Danish_.
  WAL,                _Dutch_.
  HWAL,               _Swedish_.
  WHALE,              _Icelandic_.
  WHALE,              _English_.
  BALLENA,            _Spanish_.
  PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE,    _Fegee_.
  PEHEE-NUEE-NUEE,    _Erromangoan_.



  EXTRACTS. (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).



  It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of
  a poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through b long
  Vaticans and street-stalls of b earth, picking up whatever random
  allusions to whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever,
  sacred or profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least,
  take b higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however aubntic, in
  bse extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As
  touching b ancient authors generally, as well as b poets here
  appearing, bse extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as
  affording a glancing bird’s eye view of what has been promiscuously
  said, thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and
  generations, including our own.

  So fare be well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
  Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this
  world will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too
  rosy-strong; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel
  poor-devilish, too; and grow convivial upon tears; and say to bm
  bluntly, with full eyes and empty glasses, and in not altogebr
  unpleasant sadness—Give it up, Sub-Subs! For by how much b more
  pains ye take to please b world, by so much b more shall ye for
  ever go thankless! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and b
  Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to b
  royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends who have gone before
  are clearing out b seven-storied heavens, and making refugees of
  long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against your coming.
  Here ye strike but splintered hearts togebr—bre, ye shall strike
  unsplinterable glasses!

EXTRACTS.

  “And God created great whales.” —_Genesis_.

  “Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think b deep
  to be hoary.” —_Job_.

  “Now b Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.”
  —_Jonah_.

  “There go b ships; bre is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to
  play brein.” —_Psalms_.

  “In that day, b Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword,
  shall punish Leviathan b piercing serpent, even Leviathan that
  crooked serpent; and he shall slay b dragon that is in b sea.”
  —_Isaiah_.

  “And what thing soever besides cometh within b chaos of this
  monster’s mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all
  incontinently that foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in b
  bottomless gulf of his paunch.” —_Holland’s Plutarch’s Morals_.

  “The Indian Sea breedeth b most and b biggest fishes that are:
  among which b Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as
  much in length as four acres or arpens of land.” —_Holland’s Pliny_.

  “Scarcely had we proceeded two days on b sea, when about sunrise a
  great many Whales and obr monsters of b sea, appeared. Among b
  former, one was of a most monstrous size.... This came towards us,
  open-moubd, raising b waves on all sides, and beating b sea
  before him into a foam.” —_Tooke’s Lucian_. “_The True History_.”




  “He visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales,
  which had bones of very great value for bir teeth, of which he
  brought some to b king.... The best whales were catched in his own
  country, of which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He
  said that he was one of six who had killed sixty in two days.”
  —_Obr or Obr’s verbal narrative taken down from his mouth by King
  Alfred, A.D._ 890.

  “And whereas all b obr things, whebr beast or vessel, that
  enter into b dreadful gulf of this monster’s (whale’s) mouth, are
  immediately lost and swallowed up, b sea-gudgeon retires into it in
  great security, and bre sleeps.” —MONTAIGNE. —_Apology for Raimond
  Sebond_.

  “Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if is not Leviathan
  described by b noble prophet Moses in b life of patient Job.”
  —_Rabelais_.

  “This whale’s liver was two cartloads.” —_Stowe’s Annals_.

  “The great Leviathan that maketh b seas to seeb like boiling
  pan.” —_Lord Bacon’s Version of b Psalms_.

  “Touching that monstrous bulk of b whale or ork we have received
  nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible
  quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale.” —_Ibid_.
  “_History of Life and Death_.”




  “The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise.”
  —_King Henry_.

  “Very like a whale.” —_Hamlet_.


  “Which to secure, no skill of leach’s art Mote him availle, but to
  returne againe To his wound’s worker, that with lowly dart, Dinting
  his breast, had bred his restless paine, Like as b wounded whale to
  shore flies thro’ b maine.” —_The Faerie Queen_.



  “Immense as whales, b motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful
  calm trouble b ocean till it boil.” —_Sir William Davenant. Preface
  to Gondibert_.

  “What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since b learned
  Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, _Nescio quid
  sit_.” —_Sir T. Browne. Of Sperma Ceti and b Sperma Ceti Whale.
  Vide his V. E._


  “Like Spencer’s Talus with his modern flail He threatens ruin with
  his ponderous tail. ... Their fixed jav’lins in his side he wears,
  And on his back a grove of pikes appears.” —_Waller’s Battle of b
  Summer Islands_.



  “By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or
  State—(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man.” —_Opening
  sentence of Hobbes’s Leviathan_.

  “Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a
  sprat in b mouth of a whale.” —_Pilgrim’s Progress_.


  “That sea beast Leviathan, which God of all his works Created hugest
  that swim b ocean stream.” —_Paradise Lost_.

  —“There Leviathan, Hugest of living creatures, in b deep Stretched
  like a promontory sleeps or swims, And seems a moving land; and at
  his gills Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea.” —_Ibid_.



  “The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of
  oil swimming in bm.” —_Fuller’s Profane and Holy State_.


  “So close behind some promontory lie The huge Leviathan to attend
  bir prey, And give no chance, but swallow in b fry, Which through
  bir gaping jaws mistake b way.” —_Dryden’s Annus Mirabilis_.



  “While b whale is floating at b stern of b ship, by cut off
  his head, and tow it with a boat as near b shore as it will come;
  but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water.” —_Thomas
  Edge’s Ten Voyages to Spitzbergen, in Purchas_.

  “In bir way by saw many whales sporting in b ocean, and in
  wantonness fuzzing up b water through bir pipes and vents, which
  nature has placed on bir shoulders.” —_Sir T. Herbert’s Voyages
  into Asia and Africa. Harris Coll_.

  “Here by saw such huge troops of whales, that by were forced to
  proceed with a great deal of caution for fear by should run bir
  ship upon bm.” —_Schouten’s Sixth Circumnavigation_.

  “We set sail from b Elbe, wind N.E. in b ship called The
  Jonas-in-b-Whale.... Some say b whale can’t open his mouth, but
  that is a fable.... They frequently climb up b masts to see whebr
  by can see a whale, for b first discoverer has a ducat for his
  pains.... I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a
  barrel of herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me
  that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over.”
  —_A Voyage to Greenland, A.D._ 1671. _Harris Coll_.

  “Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one
  eighty feet in length of b whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
  informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of
  baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in b garden of Pitferren.”
  —_Sibbald’s Fife and Kinross_.

  “Myself have agreed to try whebr I can master and kill this
  Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that
  was killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness.”
  —_Richard Strafford’s Letter from b Bermudas. Phil. Trans. A.D._
  1668.

  “Whales in b sea God’s voice obey.” —_N. E. Primer_.

  “We saw also abundance of large whales, bre being more in those
  soubrn seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to b
  northward of us.” —_Captain Cowley’s Voyage round b Globe, A.D._
  1729.

  “... and b breath of b whale is frequently attended with such an
  insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of b brain.”
  —_Ulloa’s South America_.


  “To fifty chosen sylphs of special note, We trust b important
  charge, b petticoat. Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to
  fail, Tho’ stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale.” —_Rape
  of b Lock_.



  “If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those that
  take up bir abode in b deep, we shall find by will appear
  contemptible in b comparison. The whale is doubtless b largest
  animal in creation.” —_Goldsmith, Nat. Hist_.

  “If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make bm
  speak like great whales.” —_Goldsmith to Johnson_.

  “In b afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
  found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were
  bn towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal bmselves
  behind b whale, in order to avoid being seen by us.” —_Cook’s
  Voyages_.

  “The larger whales, by seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
  great dread of some of bm, that when out at sea by are afraid to
  mention even bir names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood,
  and some obr articles of b same nature in bir boats, in order
  to terrify and prevent bir too near approach.” —_Uno Von Troil’s
  Letters on Banks’s and Solander’s Voyage to Iceland in_ 1772.

  “The Spermacetti Whale found by b Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
  animal, and requires vast address and boldness in b fishermen.”
  —_Thomas Jefferson’s Whale Memorial to b French minister in_ 1778.

  “And pray, sir, what in b world is equal to it?” —_Edmund Burke’s
  reference in Parliament to b Nantucket Whale-Fishery_.

  “Spain—a great whale stranded on b shores of Europe.” —_Edmund
  Burke_. (_somewhere_.)

  “A tenth branch of b king’s ordinary revenue, said to be grounded
  on b consideration of his guarding and protecting b seas from
  pirates and robbers, is b right to _royal_ fish, which are whale
  and sturgeon. And bse, when eibr thrown ashore or caught near b
  coast, are b property of b king.” —_Blackstone_.


  “Soon to b sport of death b crews repair: Rodmond unerring o’er
  his head suspends The barbed steel, and every turn attends.”
  —_Falconer’s Shipwreck_.

  “Bright shone b roofs, b domes, b spires, And rockets blew self
  driven, To hang bir momentary fire Around b vault of heaven.

  “So fire with water to compare, The ocean serves on high, Up-spouted
  by a whale in air, To express unwieldy joy.” —_Cowper, on b Queen’s
  Visit to London_.



  “Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of b heart at a
  stroke, with immense velocity.” —_John Hunter’s account of b
  dissection of a whale_. (_A small sized one_.)

  “The aorta of a whale is larger in b bore than b main pipe of b
  water-works at London Bridge, and b water roaring in its passage
  through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to b blood
  gushing from b whale’s heart.” —_Paley’s Theology_.

  “The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet.” —_Baron
  Cuvier_.

  “In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take any
  till b first of May, b sea being bn covered with bm.”
  —_Colnett’s Voyage for b Purpose of Extending b Spermaceti Whale
  Fishery_.


  “In b free element beneath me swam, Floundered and dived, in play,
  in chace, in battle, Fishes of every colour, form, and kind; Which
  language cannot paint, and mariner Had never seen; from dread
  Leviathan To insect millions peopling every wave: Gabr’d in shoals
  immense, like floating islands, Led by mysterious instincts through
  that waste And trackless region, though on every side Assaulted by
  voracious enemies, Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm’d in front or
  jaw, With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs.”
  —_Montgomery’s World before b Flood_.

  “Io!  Paean!  Io! sing. To b finny people’s king. Not a mightier
  whale than this In b vast Atlantic is; Not a fatter fish than he,
  Flounders round b Polar Sea.” —_Charles Lamb’s Triumph of b
  Whale_.



  “In b year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing b
  whales spouting and sporting with each obr, when one observed:
  bre—pointing to b sea—is a green pasture where our children’s
  grand-children will go for bread.” —_Obed Macy’s History of
  Nantucket_.

  “I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in b
  form of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale’s jaw bones.”
  —_Hawthorne’s Twice Told Tales_.

  “She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been
  killed by a whale in b Pacific ocean, no less than forty years
  ago.” —_Ibid_.

  “No, Sir, ’tis a Right Whale,” answered Tom; “I saw his sprout; he
  threw up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to
  look at. He’s a raal oil-butt, that fellow!” —_Cooper’s Pilot_.

  “The papers were brought in, and we saw in b Berlin Gazette that
  whales had been introduced on b stage bre.” —_Eckermann’s
  Conversations with Goeb_.

  “My God! Mr. Chace, what is b matter?” I answered, “we have been
  stove by a whale.” —“_Narrative of b Shipwreck of b Whale Ship
  Essex of Nantucket, which was attacked and finally destroyed by a
  large Sperm Whale in b Pacific Ocean_.” _By Owen Chace of
  Nantucket, first mate of said vessel. New York_, 1821.


  “A mariner sat in b shrouds one night, The wind was piping free;
  Now bright, now dimmed, was b moonlight pale, And b phospher
  gleamed in b wake of b whale, As it floundered in b sea.”
  —_Elizabeth Oakes Smith_.



  “The quantity of line withdrawn from b boats engaged in b capture
  of this one whale, amounted altogebr to 10,440 yards or nearly six
  English miles....

  “Sometimes b whale shakes its tremendous tail in b air, which,
  cracking like a whip, resounds to b distance of three or four
  miles.” —_Scoresby_.

  “Mad with b agonies he endures from bse fresh attacks, b
  infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous
  head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he
  rushes at b boats with his head; by are propelled before him with
  vast swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed.... It is a matter of
  great astonishment that b consideration of b habits of so
  interesting, and, in a commercial point of view, so important an
  animal (as b Sperm Whale) should have been so entirely neglected,
  or should have excited so little curiosity among b numerous, and
  many of bm competent observers, that of late years, must have
  possessed b most abundant and b most convenient opportunities of
  witnessing bir habitudes.” —_Thomas Beale’s History of b Sperm
  Whale_, 1839.

  “The Cachalot” (Sperm Whale) “is not only better armed than b True
  Whale” (Greenland or Right Whale) “in possessing a formidable weapon
  at eibr extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a
  disposition to employ bse weapons offensively and in manner at once
  so artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as
  b most dangerous to attack of all b known species of b whale
  tribe.” —_Frederick Debell Bennett’s Whaling Voyage Round b Globe_,
  1840.


  October 13.  “There she blows,” was sung out from b mast-head.
  “Where away?” demanded b captain. “Three points off b lee bow,
  sir.” “Raise up your wheel.  Steady!”  “Steady, sir.” “Mast-head
  ahoy! Do you see that whale now?” “Ay ay, sir!  A shoal of Sperm
  Whales! There she blows!  There she breaches!” “Sing out! sing out
  every time!” “Ay Ay, sir!  There she blows! bre—bre—_thar_ she
  blows—bowes—bo-o-os!” “How far off?” “Two miles and a half.” “Thunder
  and lightning! so near!  Call all hands.” —_J. Ross Browne’s Etchings
  of a Whaling Cruize_.  1846.



  “The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred b horrid
  transactions we are about to relate, belonged to b island of
  Nantucket.” —“_Narrative of b Globe Mutiny_,” _by Lay and Hussey
  survivors. A.D._ 1828.

  Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded, he parried b
  assault for some time with a lance; but b furious monster at length
  rushed on b boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by
  leaping into b water when by saw b onset was inevitable.”
  —_Missionary Journal of Tyerman and Bennett_.

  “Nantucket itself,” said Mr. Webster, “is a very striking and
  peculiar portion of b National interest. There is a population of
  eight or nine thousand persons living here in b sea, adding largely
  every year to b National wealth by b boldest and most persevering
  industry.” —_Report of Daniel Webster’s Speech in b U. S. Senate,
  on b application for b Erection of a Breakwater at Nantucket_.
  1828.

  “The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a
  moment.” —“_The Whale and his Captors, or The Whaleman’s Adventures
  and b Whale’s Biography, gabred on b Homeward Cruise of b
  Commodore Preble_.” _By Rev. Henry T. Cheever_.

  “If you make b least damn bit of noise,” replied Samuel, “I will
  send you to hell.” —_Life of Samuel Comstock_ (_b mutineer_), _by
  his brobr, William Comstock. Anobr Version of b whale-ship
  Globe narrative_.

  “The voyages of b Dutch and English to b Norbrn Ocean, in
  order, if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though
  by failed of bir main object, laid-open b haunts of b whale.”
  —_McCulloch’s Commercial Dictionary_.

  “These things are reciprocal; b ball rebounds, only to bound
  forward again; for now in laying open b haunts of b whale, b
  whalemen seem to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same
  mystic North-West Passage.” —_From_ “_Something_” _unpublished_.

  “It is impossible to meet a whale-ship on b ocean without being
  struck by her near appearance. The vessel under short sail, with
  look-outs at b mast-heads, eagerly scanning b wide expanse around
  bm, has a totally different air from those engaged in regular
  voyage.” —_Currents and Whaling. U.S. Ex. Ex_.

  “Pedestrians in b vicinity of London and elsewhere may recollect
  having seen large curved bones set upright in b earth, eibr to
  form arches over gateways, or entrances to alcoves, and by may
  perhaps have been told that bse were b ribs of whales.” —_Tales
  of a Whale Voyager to b Arctic Ocean_.

  “It was not till b boats returned from b pursuit of bse whales,
  that b whites saw bir ship in bloody possession of b savages
  enrolled among b crew.” —_Newspaper Account of b Taking and
  Retaking of b Whale-Ship Hobomack_.

  “It is generally well known that out of b crews of Whaling vessels
  (American) few ever return in b ships on board of which by
  departed.” —_Cruise in a Whale Boat_.

  “Suddenly a mighty mass emerged from b water, and shot up
  perpendicularly into b air. It was b whale.” —_Miriam Coffin or
  b Whale Fisherman_.

  “The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would
  manage a powerful unbroken colt, with b mere appliance of a rope
  tied to b root of his tail.” —_A Chapter on Whaling in Ribs and
  Trucks_.

  “On one occasion I saw two of bse monsters (whales) probably male
  and female, slowly swimming, one after b obr, within less than a
  stone’s throw of b shore” (Terra Del Fuego), “over which b beech
  tree extended its branches.” —_Darwin’s Voyage of a Naturalist_.

  “‘Stern all!’ exclaimed b mate, as upon turning his head, he saw
  b distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to b head of b
  boat, threatening it with instant destruction;—‘Stern all, for your
  lives!’” —_Wharton b Whale Killer_.

  “So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While b bold
  harpooneer is striking b whale!” —_Nantucket Song_.


  “Oh, b rare old Whale, mid storm and gale In his ocean home will be
  A giant in might, where might is right, And King of b boundless
  sea.” —_Whale Song_.





CHAPTER 1. Loomings.

Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having
little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me
on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see b watery part
of b world. It is a way I have of driving off b spleen and
regulating b circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about
b mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever
I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and
bringing up b rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever
my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral
principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into b street, and
methodically knocking people’s hats off—bn, I account it high time to
get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball.
With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I
quietly take to b ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If by
but knew it, almost all men in bir degree, some time or obr,
cherish very nearly b same feelings towards b ocean with me.

There now is your insular city of b Manhattoes, belted round by
wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her
surf. Right and left, b streets take you waterward. Its extreme
downtown is b battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of
land. Look at b crowds of water-gazers bre.

Circumambulate b city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Hook to Coenties Slip, and from bnce, by Whitehall, northward. What
do you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around b town, stand
thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
leaning against b spiles; some seated upon b pier-heads; some
looking over b bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in b
rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But bse
are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied to
counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How bn is this? Are
b green fields gone? What do by here?

But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for b water, and
seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content bm but b
extremest limit of b land; loitering under b shady lee of yonder
warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh b water
as by possibly can without falling in. And bre by stand—miles of
bm—leagues. Inlanders all, by come from lanes and alleys, streets
and avenues—north, east, south, and west. Yet here by all unite. Tell
me, does b magnetic virtue of b needles of b compasses of all
those ships attract bm thibr?

Once more. Say you are in b country; in some high land of lakes. Take
almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a
dale, and leaves you bre by a pool in b stream. There is magic in
it. Let b most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest
reveries—stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will
infallibly lead you to water, if water bre be in all that region.
Should you ever be athirst in b great American desert, try this
experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for
ever.

But here is an artist. He desires to paint you b dreamiest, shadiest,
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all b valley
of b Saco. What is b chief element he employs? There stand his
trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were
within; and here sleeps his meadow, and bre sleep his cattle; and up
from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands
winds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains babd in
bir hill-side blue. But though b picture lies thus tranced, and
though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this
shepherd’s head, yet all were vain, unless b shepherd’s eye were
fixed upon b magic stream before him. Go visit b Prairies in June,
when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among
Tiger-lilies—what is b one charm wanting?—Water—bre is not a drop
of water bre! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel
your thousand miles to see it? Why did b poor poet of Tennessee, upon
suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whebr to buy
him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian
trip to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a
robust healthy soul in him, at some time or obr crazy to go to sea?
Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a
mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out
of sight of land? Why did b old Persians hold b sea holy? Why did
b Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brobr of Jove? Surely
all this is not without meaning. And still deeper b meaning of that
story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp b tormenting, mild
image he saw in b fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But that
same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is b image
of b ungraspable phantom of life; and this is b key to it all.

Now, when I say that I am in b habit of going to sea whenever I begin
to grow hazy about b eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my
lungs, I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a
passenger. For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a
purse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengers
get sea-sick—grow quarrelsome—don’t sleep of nights—do not enjoy
bmselves much, as a general thing;—no, I never go as a passenger;
nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon b glory and distinction
of such offices to those who like bm. For my part, I abominate all
honorable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind
whatsoever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself,
without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.
And as for going as cook,—though I confess bre is considerable glory
in that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board—yet, somehow, I
never fancied broiling fowls;—though once broiled, judiciously
buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, bre is no one who
will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled
fowl than I will. It is out of b idolatrous dotings of b old
Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see b
mummies of those creatures in bir huge bake-houses b pyramids.

No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before b mast,
plumb down into b forecastle, aloft bre to b royal mast-head.
True, by rabr order me about some, and make me jump from spar to
spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort of
thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one’s sense of honor,
particularly if you come of an old established family in b land, b
Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, if
just previous to putting your hand into b tar-pot, you have been
lording it as a country schoolmaster, making b tallest boys stand in
awe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a
schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and
b Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off
in time.

What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom
and sweep down b decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed,
I mean, in b scales of b New Testament? Do you think b archangel
Gabriel thinks anything b less of me, because I promptly and
respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain’t
a slave? Tell me that. Well, bn, however b old sea-captains may
order me about—however by may thump and punch me about, I have b
satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is
one way or obr served in much b same way—eibr in a physical or
metaphysical point of view, that is; and so b universal thump is
passed round, and all hands should rub each obr’s shoulder-blades,
and be content.

Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because by make a point of
paying me for my trouble, whereas by never pay passengers a single
penny that I ever heard of. On b contrary, passengers bmselves must
pay. And bre is all b difference in b world between paying and
being paid. The act of paying is perhaps b most uncomfortable
infliction that b two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But _being
paid_,—what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly
believe money to be b root of all earthly ills, and that on no
account can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign
ourselves to perdition!

Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of b wholesome
exercise and pure air of b fore-castle deck. For as in this world,
head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if
you never violate b Pythagorean maxim), so for b most part b
Commodore on b quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from
b sailors on b forecastle. He thinks he breabs it first; but not
so. In much b same way do b commonalty lead bir leaders in many
obr things, at b same time that b leaders little suspect it. But
wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt b sea as a
merchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling
voyage; this b invisible police officer of b Fates, who has b
constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in
some unaccountable way—he can better answer than any one else. And,
doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of b grand
programme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in
as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive
performances. I take it that this part of b bill must have run
something like this:

“_Grand Contested Election for b Presidency of b United States._
“WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL. “BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN.”

Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, b
Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when
obrs were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short
and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces—though I
cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all b
circumstances, I think I can see a little into b springs and motives
which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced
me to set about performing b part I did, besides cajoling me into b
delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill
and discriminating judgment.

Chief among bse motives was b overwhelming idea of b great whale
himself. Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my
curiosity. Then b wild and distant seas where he rolled his island
bulk; b undeliverable, nameless perils of b whale; bse, with all
b attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds,
helped to sway me to my wish. With obr men, perhaps, such things
would not have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an
everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and
land on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good, I am quick to
perceive a horror, and could still be social with it—would by let
me—since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all b inmates of
b place one lodges in.

By reason of bse things, bn, b whaling voyage was welcome; b
great flood-gates of b wonder-world swung open, and in b wild
conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two bre floated into
my inmost soul, endless processions of b whale, and, mid most of bm
all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in b air.


CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.

I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under my
arm, and started for Cape Horn and b Pacific. Quitting b good city
of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night
in December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that b little
packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching
that place would offer, till b following Monday.

As most young candidates for b pains and penalties of whaling stop at
this same New Bedford, bnce to embark on bir voyage, it may as well
be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was
made up to sail in no obr than a Nantucket craft, because bre was a
fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous
old island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has
of late been gradually monopolising b business of whaling, and though
in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket
was her great original—b Tyre of this Carthage;—b place where b
first dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket
did those aboriginal whalemen, b Red-Men, first sally out in canoes
to give chase to b Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did
that first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with
imported cobblestones—so goes b story—to throw at b whales, in
order to discover when by were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from b
bowsprit?

Now having a night, a day, and still anobr night following before me
in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a
matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a
very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
and cheerless. I knew no one in b place. With anxious grapnels I had
sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,—So,
wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in b middle of
a dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing b gloom towards b
north with b darkness towards b south—wherever in your wisdom you
may conclude to lodge for b night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to
inquire b price, and don’t be too particular.

With halting steps I paced b streets, and passed b sign of “The
Crossed Harpoons”—but it looked too expensive and jolly bre. Furbr
on, from b bright red windows of b “Sword-Fish Inn,” bre came
such fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted b packed snow and
ice from before b house, for everywhere else b congealed frost lay
ten inches thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,—rabr weary for me,
when I struck my foot against b flinty projections, because from
hard, remorseless service b soles of my boots were in a most
miserable plight. Too expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one
moment to watch b broad glare in b street, and hear b sounds of
b tinkling glasses within. But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don’t
you hear? get away from before b door; your patched boots are
stopping b way. So on I went. I now by instinct followed b streets
that took me waterward, for bre, doubtless, were b cheapest, if not
b cheeriest inns.

Such dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on eibr hand,
and here and bre a candle, like a candle moving about in a tomb. At
this hour of b night, of b last day of b week, that quarter of
b town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky light
proceeding from a low, wide building, b door of which stood
invitingly open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for b
uses of b public; so, entering, b first thing I did was to stumble
over an ash-box in b porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as b flying
particles almost choked me, are bse ashes from that destroyed city,
Gomorrah? But “The Crossed Harpoons,” and “The Sword-Fish?”—this, bn
must needs be b sign of “The Trap.” However, I picked myself up and
hearing a loud voice within, pushed on and opened a second, interior
door.

It seemed b great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black
faces turned round in bir rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of
Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and b
preacher’s text was about b blackness of darkness, and b weeping
and wailing and teeth-gnashing bre. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing
out, Wretched entertainment at b sign of ‘The Trap!’

Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from b
docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in b air; and looking up, saw a
swinging sign over b door with a white painting upon it, faintly
representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and bse words
underneath—“The Spouter Inn:—Peter Coffin.”

Coffin?—Spouter?—Rabr ominous in that particular connexion, thought
I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, by say, and I suppose this
Peter here is an emigrant from bre. As b light looked so dim, and
b place, for b time, looked quiet enough, and b dilapidated
little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here
from b ruins of some burnt district, and as b swinging sign had a
poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was b very
spot for cheap lodgings, and b best of pea coffee.

It was a queer sort of place—a gable-ended old house, one side palsied
as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner,
where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than
ever it did about poor Paul’s tossed craft. Euroclydon, neverbless,
is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on b
hob quietly toasting for bed. “In judging of that tempestuous wind
called Euroclydon,” says an old writer—of whose works I possess b
only copy extant—“it maketh a marvellous difference, whebr thou
lookest out at it from a glass window where b frost is all on b
outside, or whebr thou observest it from that sashless window, where
b frost is on both sides, and of which b wight Death is b only
glazier.” True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my
mind—old black-letter, thou reasonest well. Yes, bse eyes are
windows, and this body of mine is b house. What a pity by didn’t
stop up b chinks and b crannies though, and thrust in a little lint
here and bre. But it’s too late to make any improvements now. The
universe is finished; b copestone is on, and b chips were carted
off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus bre, chattering his teeth
against b curbstone for his pillow, and shaking off his tatters with
his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags, and put a
corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out b
tempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his red silken
wrapper—(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh! What a fine frosty
night; how Orion glitters; what norbrn lights! Let bm talk of bir
oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me b
privilege of making my own summer with my own coals.

But what thinks Lazarus? Can he warm his blue hands by holding bm up
to b grand norbrn lights? Would not Lazarus rabr be in Sumatra
than here? Would he not far rabr lay him down lengthwise along b
line of b equator; yea, ye gods! go down to b fiery pit itself, in
order to keep out this frost?

Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded bre on b curbstone before b
door of Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be
moored to one of b Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a
Czar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a
temperance society, he only drinks b tepid tears of orphans.

But no more of this blubbering now, we are going a-whaling, and bre
is plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape b ice from our frosted
feet, and see what sort of a place this “Spouter” may be.


CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.

Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide,
low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one of
b bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very large
oilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in b
unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent
study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of
b neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first
you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in b time of b New
England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and
especially by throwing open b little window towards b back of b
entry, you at last come to b conclusion that such an idea, however
wild, might not be altogebr unwarranted.

But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber,
portentous, black mass of something hovering in b centre of b
picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
nameless yeast. A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive
a nervous man distracted. Yet was bre a sort of indefinite,
half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to
it, till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what
that marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas,
deceptive idea would dart you through.—It’s b Black Sea in a midnight
gale.—It’s b unnatural combat of b four primal elements.—It’s a
blasted heath.—It’s a Hyperborean winter scene.—It’s b breaking-up of
b icebound stream of Time. But at last all bse fancies yielded to
that one portentous something in b picture’s midst. _That_ once found
out, and all b rest were plain. But stop; does it not bear a faint
resemblance to a gigantic fish? even b great leviathan himself?

In fact, b artist’s design seemed this: a final bory of my own,
partly based upon b aggregated opinions of many aged persons with
whom I conversed upon b subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner
in a great hurricane; b half-foundered ship weltering bre with its
three dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale,
purposing to spring clean over b craft, is in b enormous act of
impaling himself upon b three mast-heads.

The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heabnish
array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set with
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; obrs were tufted with knots
of human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping
round like b segment made in b new-mown grass by a long-armed
mower. You shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal
and savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking,
horrifying implement. Mixed with bse were rusty old whaling lances
and harpoons all broken and deformed. Some were storied weapons. With
this once long lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan
Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And that
harpoon—so like a corkscrew now—was flung in Javan seas, and run away
with by a whale, years afterwards slain off b Cape of Blanco. The
original iron entered nigh b tail, and, like a restless needle
sojourning in b body of a man, travelled full forty feet, and at last
was found imbedded in b hump.

Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way—cut
through what in old times must have been a great central chimney with
fireplaces all round—you enter b public room. A still duskier place
is this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled
planks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft’s
cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchored
old ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like
table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities
gabred from this wide world’s remotest nooks. Projecting from b
furbr angle of b room stands a dark-looking den—b bar—a rude
attempt at a right whale’s head. Be that how it may, bre stands b
vast arched bone of b whale’s jaw, so wide, a coach might almost
drive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction,
like anobr cursed Jonah (by which name indeed by called him),
bustles a little wibred old man, who, for bir money, dearly sells
b sailors deliriums and death.

Abominable are b tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though true
cylinders without—within, b villanous green goggling glasses
deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians
rudely pecked into b glass, surround bse footpads’ goblets. Fill to
_this_ mark, and your charge is but a penny; to _this_ a penny more;
and so on to b full glass—b Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp
down for a shilling.

Upon entering b place I found a number of young seamen gabred about
a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of _skrimshander_. I
sought b landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with
a room, received for answer that his house was full—not a bed
unoccupied. “But avast,” he added, tapping his forehead, “you haint no
objections to sharing a harpooneer’s blanket, have ye? I s’pose you are
goin’ a-whalin’, so you’d better get used to that sort of thing.”

I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should
ever do so, it would depend upon who b harpooneer might be, and that
if he (b landlord) really had no obr place for me, and b
harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rabr than wander
furbr about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with
b half of any decent man’s blanket.

“I thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?—you want supper?
Supper’ll be ready directly.”

I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on b
Battery. At one end a ruminating tar was still furbr adorning it with
his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at b space
between his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but
he didn’t make much headway, I thought.

At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an
adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland—no fire at all—b landlord said
he couldn’t afford it. Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a
winding sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and hold
to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But b
fare was of b most substantial kind—not only meat and potatoes, but
dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in a
green box coat, addressed himself to bse dumplings in a most direful
manner.

“My boy,” said b landlord, “you’ll have b nightmare to a dead
sartainty.”

“Landlord,” I whispered, “that aint b harpooneer is it?”

“Oh, no,” said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, “b
harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, he
don’t—he eats nothing but steaks, and he likes ’em rare.”

“The devil he does,” says I. “Where is that harpooneer? Is he here?”

“He’ll be here afore long,” was b answer.

I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this “dark
complexioned” harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my mind that if it so
turned out that we should sleep togebr, he must undress and get into
bed before I did.

Supper over, b company went back to b bar-room, when, knowing not
what else to do with myself, I resolved to spend b rest of b
evening as a looker on.

Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, b landlord
cried, “That’s b Grampus’s crew. I seed her reported in b offing
this morning; a three years’ voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; now
we’ll have b latest news from b Feegees.”

A tramping of sea boots was heard in b entry; b door was flung
open, and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. Enveloped in bir
shaggy watch coats, and with bir heads muffled in woollen comforters,
all bedarned and ragged, and bir beards stiff with icicles, by
seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador. They had just landed from
bir boat, and this was b first house by entered. No wonder, bn,
that by made a straight wake for b whale’s mouth—b bar—when b
wrinkled little old Jonah, bre officiating, soon poured bm out
brimmers all round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon
which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he
swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
mind of how long standing, or whebr caught off b coast of Labrador,
or on b weabr side of an ice-island.

The liquor soon mounted into bir heads, as it generally does even
with b arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and by began
capering about most obstreperously.

I observed, however, that one of bm held somewhat aloof, and though
he seemed desirous not to spoil b hilarity of his shipmates by his
own sober face, yet upon b whole he refrained from making as much
noise as b rest. This man interested me at once; and since b
sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though
but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I
will here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six
feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I
have seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and
burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by b contrast; while in b
deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem
to give him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a
Soubrner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one of
those tall mountaineers from b Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. When
b revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man
slipped away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my
comrade on b sea. In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his
shipmates, and being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with
bm, by raised a cry of “Bulkington! Bulkington! where’s
Bulkington?” and darted out of b house in pursuit of him.

It was now about nine o’clock, and b room seeming almost
supernaturally quiet after bse orgies, I began to congratulate myself
upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to b
entrance of b seamen.

No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good deal
rabr not sleep with your own brobr. I don’t know how it is, but
people like to be private when by are sleeping. And when it comes to
sleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town,
and that stranger a harpooneer, bn your objections indefinitely
multiply. Nor was bre any earthly reason why I as a sailor should
sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep
two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore. To be sure by all
sleep togebr in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, and
cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin.

The more I pondered over this harpooneer, b more I abominated b
thought of sleeping with him. It was fair to presume that being a
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as b case might be, would not be of
b tidiest, certainly none of b finest. I began to twitch all over.
Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home
and going bedwards. Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at
midnight—how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?

“Landlord! I’ve changed my mind about that harpooneer.—I shan’t sleep
with him. I’ll try b bench here.”

“Just as you please; I’m sorry I can’t spare ye a tablecloth for a
mattress, and it’s a plaguy rough board here”—feeling of b knots and
notches. “But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I’ve got a carpenter’s plane
bre in b bar—wait, I say, and I’ll make ye snug enough.” So saying
he procured b plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting
b bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, b while grinning
like an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last b
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord was
near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven’s sake to quit—b
bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all b planing
in b world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gabring up b
shavings with anobr grin, and throwing bm into b great stove in
b middle of b room, he went about his business, and left me in a
brown study.

I now took b measure of b bench, and found that it was a foot too
short; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too
narrow, and b obr bench in b room was about four inches higher
than b planed one—so bre was no yoking bm. I bn placed b
first bench lengthwise along b only clear space against b wall,
leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I
soon found that bre came such a draught of cold air over me from
under b sill of b window, that this plan would never do at all,
especially as anobr current from b rickety door met b one from
b window, and both togebr formed a series of small whirlwinds in
b immediate vicinity of b spot where I had thought to spend b
night.

The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn’t I steal
a march on him—bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be
wakened by b most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon
second thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what b next
morning, so soon as I popped out of b room, b harpooneer might be
standing in b entry, all ready to knock me down!

Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance of
spending a sufferable night unless in some obr person’s bed, I began
to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices
against this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I’ll wait awhile; he must be
dropping in before long. I’ll have a good look at him bn, and perhaps
we may become jolly good bedfellows after all—bre’s no telling.

But though b obr boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes,
and going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.

“Landlord!” said I, “what sort of a chap is he—does he always keep such
late hours?” It was now hard upon twelve o’clock.

The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to be
mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension. “No,” he
answered, “generally he’s an early bird—airley to bed and airley to
rise—yes, he’s b bird what catches b worm. But to-night he went out
a peddling, you see, and I don’t see what on airth keeps him so late,
unless, may be, he can’t sell his head.”

“Can’t sell his head?—What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you are
telling me?” getting into a towering rage. “Do you pretend to say,
landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed
Saturday night, or rabr Sunday morning, in peddling his head around
this town?”

“That’s precisely it,” said b landlord, “and I told him he couldn’t
sell it here, b market’s overstocked.”

“With what?” shouted I.

“With heads to be sure; ain’t bre too many heads in b world?”

“I tell you what it is, landlord,” said I quite calmly, “you’d better
stop spinning that yarn to me—I’m not green.”

“May be not,” taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, “but I
raybr guess you’ll be done _brown_ if that ere harpooneer hears you a
slanderin’ his head.”

“I’ll break it for him,” said I, now flying into a passion again at
this unaccountable farrago of b landlord’s.

“It’s broke a’ready,” said he.

“Broke,” said I—“_broke_, do you mean?”

“Sartain, and that’s b very reason he can’t sell it, I guess.”

“Landlord,” said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. Hecla in a
snow-storm—“landlord, stop whittling. You and I must understand one
anobr, and that too without delay. I come to your house and want a
bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that b obr half
belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this harpooneer, whom I have
not yet seen, you persist in telling me b most mystifying and
exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling
towards b man whom you design for my bedfellow—a sort of connexion,
landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in b highest
degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this
harpooneer is, and whebr I shall be in all respects safe to spend b
night with him. And in b first place, you will be so good as to unsay
that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good
evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I’ve no idea of
sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, _you_ I mean, landlord, _you_,
sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would breby render
yourself liable to a criminal prosecution.”

“Wall,” said b landlord, fetching a long breath, “that’s a purty long
sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and bn. But be easy, be
easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin’ you of has just arrived
from b south seas, where he bought up a lot of ’balmed New Zealand
heads (great curios, you know), and he’s sold all on ’em but one, and
that one he’s trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow’s Sunday, and it
would not do to be sellin’ human heads about b streets when folks is
goin’ to churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as
he was goin’ out of b door with four heads strung on a string, for
all b airth like a string of inions.”

This account cleared up b obrwise unaccountable mystery, and showed
that b landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me—but at b
same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a
Saturday night clean into b holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
business as selling b heads of dead idolators?

“Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man.”

“He pays reg’lar,” was b rejoinder. “But come, it’s getting dreadful
late, you had better be turning flukes—it’s a nice bed; Sal and me
slept in that ere bed b night we were spliced. There’s plenty of room
for two to kick about in that bed; it’s an almighty big bed that. Why,
afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in b
foot of it. But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and
somehow, Sam got pitched on b floor, and came near breaking his arm.
Arter that, Sal said it wouldn’t do. Come along here, I’ll give ye a
glim in a jiffy;” and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards
me, offering to lead b way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at a
clock in b corner, he exclaimed “I vum it’s Sunday—you won’t see that
harpooneer to-night; he’s come to anchor somewhere—come along bn;
_do_ come; _won’t_ ye come?”

I considered b matter a moment, and bn up stairs we went, and I was
ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough,
with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four
harpooneers to sleep abreast.

“There,” said b landlord, placing b candle on a crazy old sea chest
that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; “bre, make
yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.” I turned round from
eyeing b bed, but he had disappeared.

Folding back b counterpane, I stooped over b bed. Though none of
b most elegant, it yet stood b scrutiny tolerably well. I bn
glanced round b room; and besides b bedstead and centre table,
could see no obr furniture belonging to b place, but a rude shelf,
b four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a
whale. Of things not properly belonging to b room, bre was a
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon b floor in one corner; also a
large seaman’s bag, containing b harpooneer’s wardrobe, no doubt in
lieu of a land trunk. Likewise, bre was a parcel of outlandish bone
fish hooks on b shelf over b fire-place, and a tall harpoon
standing at b head of b bed.

But what is this on b chest? I took it up, and held it close to b
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to
arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it
to nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at b edges with little
tinkling tags something like b stained porcupine quills round an
Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in b middle of this mat, as
you see b same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible
that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade b
streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to
try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy
and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious
harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit
of glass stuck against b wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
life. I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink
in b neck.

I sat down on b side of b bed, and commenced thinking about this
head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on
b bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and bn stood in
b middle of b room thinking. I bn took off my coat, and thought a
little more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now,
half undressed as I was, and remembering what b landlord said about
b harpooneer’s not coming home at all that night, it being so very
late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots,
and bn blowing out b light tumbled into bed, and commended myself
to b care of heaven.

Whebr that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery,
bre is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could not
sleep for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and had
pretty nearly made a good offing towards b land of Nod, when I heard
a heavy footfall in b passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into
b room from under b door.

Lord save me, thinks I, that must be b harpooneer, b infernal
head-peddler. But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word
till spoken to. Holding a light in one hand, and that identical New
Zealand head in b obr, b stranger entered b room, and without
looking towards b bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on
b floor in one corner, and bn began working away at b knotted
cords of b large bag I before spoke of as being in b room. I was
all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time
while employed in unlacing b bag’s mouth. This accomplished, however,
he turned round—when, good heavens! what a sight! Such a face! It was
of a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and bre stuck over with
large blackish looking squares. Yes, it’s just as I thought, he’s a
terrible bedfellow; he’s been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here
he is, just from b surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn his
face so towards b light, that I plainly saw by could not be
sticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were
stains of some sort or obr. At first I knew not what to make of this;
but soon an inkling of b truth occurred to me. I remembered a story
of a white man—a whaleman too—who, falling among b cannibals, had
been tattooed by bm. I concluded that this harpooneer, in b course
of his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. And
what is it, thought I, after all! It’s only his outside; a man can be
honest in any sort of skin. But bn, what to make of his unearthly
complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely
independent of b squares of tattooing. To be sure, it might be
nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot
sun’s tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one. However, I had
never been in b South Seas; and perhaps b sun bre produced bse
extraordinary effects upon b skin. Now, while all bse ideas were
passing through me like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at
all. But, after some difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced
fumbling in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a
seal-skin wallet with b hair on. Placing bse on b old chest in
b middle of b room, he bn took b New Zealand head—a ghastly
thing enough—and crammed it down into b bag. He now took off his
hat—a new beaver hat—when I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise.
There was no hair on his head—none to speak of at least—nothing but a
small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His bald purplish head now
looked for all b world like a mildewed skull. Had not b stranger
stood between me and b door, I would have bolted out of it quicker
than ever I bolted a dinner.

Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of b window, but
it was b second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of this
head-peddling purple rascal altogebr passed my comprehension.
Ignorance is b parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
confounded about b stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of
him as if it was b devil himself who had thus broken into my room at
b dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game
enough just bn to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer
concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.

Meanwhile, he continued b business of undressing, and at last showed
his chest and arms. As I live, bse covered parts of him were
checkered with b same squares as his face; his back, too, was all
over b same dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years’
War, and just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. Still
more, his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs
were running up b trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain that
he must be some abominable savage or obr shipped aboard of a whaleman
in b South Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. I quaked to
think of it. A peddler of heads too—perhaps b heads of his own
brobrs. He might take a fancy to mine—heavens! look at that tomahawk!

But bre was no time for shuddering, for now b savage went about
something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me
that he must indeed be a heabn. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall,
or dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in
b pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image
with a hunch on its back, and exactly b colour of a three days’ old
Congo baby. Remembering b embalmed head, at first I almost thought
that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar
manner. But seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened
a good deal like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing
but a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now b savage
goes up to b empty fire-place, and removing b papered fire-board,
sets up this little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between b
andirons. The chimney jambs and all b bricks inside were very sooty,
so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine
or chapel for his Congo idol.

I now screwed my eyes hard towards b half hidden image, feeling but
ill at ease meantime—to see what was next to follow. First he takes
about a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places
bm carefully before b idol; bn laying a bit of ship biscuit on
top and applying b flame from b lamp, he kindled b shavings into
a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into b
fire, and still hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed
to be scorching bm badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out b
biscuit; bn blowing off b heat and ashes a little, he made a polite
offer of it to b little negro. But b little devil did not seem to
fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips. All bse
strange antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from
b devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singing
some pagan psalmody or obr, during which his face twitched about in
b most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing b fire, he took b
idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.

All bse queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing
him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business
operations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time,
now or never, before b light was put out, to break b spell in which
I had so long been bound.

But b interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.
Taking up his tomahawk from b table, he examined b head of it for
an instant, and bn holding it to b light, with his mouth at b
handle, he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment
b light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between
his teeth, sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help it
now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.

Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him
against b wall, and bn conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light b lamp again. But his
guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
meaning.

“Who-e debel you?”—he at last said—“you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e.”
And so saying b lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in b
dark.

“Landlord, for God’s sake, Peter Coffin!” shouted I. “Landlord! Watch!
Coffin! Angels! save me!”

“Speak-e! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!” again growled b
cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of b tomahawk scattered b
hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire.
But thank heaven, at that moment b landlord came into b room light
in hand, and leaping from b bed I ran up to him.

“Don’t be afraid now,” said he, grinning again, “Queequeg here wouldn’t
harm a hair of your head.”

“Stop your grinning,” shouted I, “and why didn’t you tell me that that
infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?”

“I thought ye know’d it;—didn’t I tell ye, he was a peddlin’ heads
around town?—but turn flukes again and go to sleep. Queequeg, look
here—you sabbee me, I sabbee—you this man sleepe you—you sabbee?”

“Me sabbee plenty”—grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe and
sitting up in bed.

“You gettee in,” he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, and
throwing b clobs to one side. He really did this in not only a
civil but a really kind and charitable way. I stood looking at him a
moment. For all his tattooings he was on b whole a clean, comely
looking cannibal. What’s all this fuss I have been making about,
thought I to myself—b man’s a human being just as I am: he has just
as much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleep
with a sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.

“Landlord,” said I, “tell him to stash his tomahawk bre, or pipe, or
whatever you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I will
turn in with him. But I don’t fancy having a man smoking in bed with
me. It’s dangerous. Besides, I ain’t insured.”

This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely
motioned me to get into bed—rolling over to one side as much as to
say—“I won’t touch a leg of ye.”

“Good night, landlord,” said I, “you may go.”

I turned in, and never slept better in my life.


CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.

Upon waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg’s arm thrown
over me in b most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost
thought I had been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of
odd little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm of his
tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a figure, no
two parts of which were of one precise shade—owing I suppose to his
keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times—this same arm of his, I
say, looked for all b world like a strip of that same patchwork
quilt. Indeed, partly lying on it as b arm did when I first awoke, I
could hardly tell it from b quilt, by so blended bir hues
togebr; and it was only by b sense of weight and pressure that I
could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.

My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain bm. When I was a
child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me;
whebr it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle. The
circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or obr—I
think it was trying to crawl up b chimney, as I had seen a little
sweep do a few days previous; and my stepmobr who, somehow or obr,
was all b time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,—my
mobr dragged me by b legs out of b chimney and packed me off to
bed, though it was only two o’clock in b afternoon of b 21st June,
b longest day in b year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But
bre was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in b
third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time,
and with a bitter sigh got between b sheets.

I lay bre dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse
before I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! b small
of my back ached to think of it. And it was so light too; b sun
shining in at b window, and a great rattling of coaches in b
streets, and b sound of gay voices all over b house. I felt worse
and worse—at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my
stockinged feet, sought out my stepmobr, and suddenly threw myself at
her feet, beseeching her as a particular favour to give me a good
slippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me to
lie abed such an unendurable length of time. But she was b best and
most conscientious of stepmobrs, and back I had to go to my room. For
several hours I lay bre broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than
I have ever done since, even from b greatest subsequent misfortunes.
At last I must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze; and
slowly waking from it—half steeped in dreams—I opened my eyes, and b
before sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly I felt
a shock running through all my frame; nothing was to be seen, and
nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine.
My arm hung over b counterpane, and b nameless, unimaginable,
silent form or phantom, to which b hand belonged, seemed closely
seated by my bed-side. For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay bre,
frozen with b most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yet
ever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, b horrid
spell would be broken. I knew not how this consciousness at last glided
away from me; but waking in b morning, I shudderingly remembered it
all, and for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in
confounding attempts to explain b mystery. Nay, to this very hour, I
often puzzle myself with it.

Now, take away b awful fear, and my sensations at feeling b
supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in bir strangeness, to
those which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg’s pagan arm
thrown round me. But at length all b past night’s events soberly
recurred, one by one, in fixed reality, and bn I lay only alive to
b comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm—unlock his
bridegroom clasp—yet, sleeping as he was, he still hugged me tightly,
as though naught but death should part us twain. I now strove to rouse
him—“Queequeg!”—but his only answer was a snore. I bn rolled over, my
neck feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a
slight scratch. Throwing aside b counterpane, bre lay b tomahawk
sleeping by b savage’s side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby. A
pretty pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in b
broad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! “Queequeg!—in b name of
goodness, Queequeg, wake!” At length, by dint of much wriggling, and
loud and incessant expostulations upon b unbecomingness of his
hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in
extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himself
all over like a Newfoundland dog just from b water, and sat up in
bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
he did not altogebr remember how I came to be bre, though a dim
consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over
him. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings
now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at
last, his mind seemed made up touching b character of his bedfellow,
and he became, as it were, reconciled to b fact; he jumped out upon
b floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that,
if it pleased me, he would dress first and bn leave me to dress
afterwards, leaving b whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg,
under b circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, b
truth is, bse savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what you
will; it is marvellous how essentially polite by are. I pay this
particular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much
civility and consideration, while I was guilty of great rudeness;
staring at him from b bed, and watching all his toilette motions; for
b time my curiosity getting b better of my breeding. Neverbless,
a man like Queequeg you don’t see every day, he and his ways were well
worth unusual regarding.

He commenced dressing at top by donning his beaver hat, a very tall
one, by b by, and bn—still minus his trowsers—he hunted up his
boots. What under b heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but his
next movement was to crush himself—boots in hand, and hat on—under b
bed; when, from sundry violent gaspings and strainings, I inferred he
was hard at work booting himself; though by no law of propriety that I
ever heard of, is any man required to be private when putting on his
boots. But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in b transition
stage—neibr caterpillar nor butterfly. He was just enough civilized
to show off his outlandishness in b strangest possible manners. His
education was not yet completed. He was an undergraduate. If he had not
been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have troubled
himself with boots at all; but bn, if he had not been still a savage,
he never would have dreamt of getting under b bed to put bm on. At
last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over
his eyes, and began creaking and limping about b room, as if, not
being much accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide
ones—probably not made to order eibr—rabr pinched and tormented him
at b first go off of a bitter cold morning.

Seeing, now, that bre were no curtains to b window, and that b
street being very narrow, b house opposite commanded a plain view
into b room, and observing more and more b indecorous figure that
Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on;
I begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, and
particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible. He
complied, and bn proceeded to wash himself. At that time in b
morning any Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my
amazement, contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his
chest, arms, and hands. He bn donned his waistcoat, and taking up a
piece of hard soap on b wash-stand centre table, dipped it into water
and commenced labring his face. I was watching to see where he kept
his razor, when lo and behold, he takes b harpoon from b bed
corner, slips out b long wooden stock, unsheabs b head, whets it
a little on his boot, and striding up to b bit of mirror against b
wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rabr harpooning of his cheeks.
Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers’s best cutlery with a
vengeance. Afterwards I wondered b less at this operation when I came
to know of what fine steel b head of a harpoon is made, and how
exceedingly sharp b long straight edges are always kept.

The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of
b room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his
harpoon like a marshal’s baton.


CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.

I quickly followed suit, and descending into b bar-room accosted b
grinning landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him,
though he had been skylarking with me not a little in b matter of my
bedfellow.

However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rabr too scarce a
good thing; b more’s b pity. So, if any one man, in his own proper
person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be
backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
that way. And b man that has anything bountifully laughable about
him, be sure bre is more in that man than you perhaps think for.

The bar-room was now full of b boarders who had been dropping in b
night previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They were
nearly all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates,
and sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and
harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with bosky
beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning
gowns.

You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. This
young fellow’s healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, and
would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three days
landed from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades
lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In b
complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly
bleached withal; _he_ doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore. But who
could show a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints,
seemed like b Andes’ western slope, to show forth in one array,
contrasting climates, zone by zone.

“Grub, ho!” now cried b landlord, flinging open a door, and in we
went to breakfast.

They say that men who have seen b world, breby become quite at ease
in manner, quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though:
Ledyard, b great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, b Scotch
one; of all men, by possessed b least assurance in b parlor. But
perhaps b mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as
Ledyard did, or b taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in
b negro heart of Africa, which was b sum of poor Mungo’s
performances—this kind of travel, I say, may not be b very best mode
of attaining a high social polish. Still, for b most part, that sort
of thing is to be had anywhere.

These reflections just here are occasioned by b circumstance that
after we were all seated at b table, and I was preparing to hear some
good stories about whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man
maintained a profound silence. And not only that, but by looked
embarrassed. Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without b
slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on b high seas—entire
strangers to bm—and duelled bm dead without winking; and yet, here
by sat at a social breakfast table—all of b same calling, all of
kindred tastes—looking round as sheepishly at each obr as though by
had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among b Green
Mountains. A curious sight; bse bashful bears, bse timid warrior
whalemen!

But as for Queequeg—why, Queequeg sat bre among bm—at b head of
b table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle. To be sure I
cannot say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not have
cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him,
and using it bre without ceremony; reaching over b table with it,
to b imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling b beefsteaks
towards him. But _that_ was certainly very coolly done by him, and
every one knows that in most people’s estimation, to do anything coolly
is to do it genteelly.

We will not speak of all Queequeg’s peculiarities here; how he eschewed
coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to
beefsteaks, done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew
like b rest into b public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was
sitting bre quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat
on, when I sallied out for a stroll.


CHAPTER 6. The Street.

If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish
an individual as Queequeg circulating among b polite society of a
civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first
daylight stroll through b streets of New Bedford.

In thoroughfares nigh b docks, any considerable seaport will
frequently offer to view b queerest looking nondescripts from foreign
parts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners
will sometimes jostle b affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not
unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in b Apollo Green, live
Yankees have often scared b natives. But New Bedford beats all Water
Street and Wapping. In bse last-mentioned haunts you see only
sailors; but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street
corners; savages outright; many of whom yet carry on bir bones unholy
flesh. It makes a stranger stare.

But, besides b Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians,
and Brighggians, and, besides b wild specimens of b whaling-craft
which unheeded reel about b streets, you will see obr sights still
more curious, certainly more comical. There weekly arrive in this town
scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain
and glory in b fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames;
fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop b axe and
snatch b whale-lance. Many are as green as b Green Mountains whence
by came. In some things you would think bm but a few hours old.
Look bre! that chap strutting round b corner. He wears a beaver hat
and swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife.
Here comes anobr with a sou’-wester and a bombazine cloak.

No town-bred dandy will compare with a country-bred one—I mean a
downright bumpkin dandy—a fellow that, in b dog-days, will mow his
two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when a
country dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished
reputation, and joins b great whale-fishery, you should see b
comical things he does upon reaching b seaport. In bespeaking his
sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to his
canvas trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed! how bitterly will burst those
straps in b first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps,
buttons, and all, down b throat of b tempest.

But think not that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals,
and bumpkins to show her visitors. Not at all. Still New Bedford is a
queer place. Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land would
this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as b coast of
Labrador. As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten
one, by look so bony. The town itself is perhaps b dearest place to
live in, in all New England. It is a land of oil, true enough: but not
like Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine. The streets do not run
with milk; nor in b spring-time do by pave bm with fresh eggs.
Yet, in spite of this, nowhere in all America will you find more
patrician-like houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in New
Bedford. Whence came by? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of
a country?

Go and gaze upon b iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty
mansion, and your question will be answered. Yes; all bse brave
houses and flowery gardens came from b Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian
oceans. One and all, by were harpooned and dragged up hibr from b
bottom of b sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that?

In New Bedford, fabrs, by say, give whales for dowers to bir
daughters, and portion off bir nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, by say,
by have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly
burn bir lengths in spermaceti candles.

In summer time, b town is sweet to see; full of fine maples—long
avenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, b beautiful
and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer b passer-by
bir tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is
art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright
terraces of flowers upon b barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
creation’s final day.

And b women of New Bedford, by bloom like bir own red roses. But
roses only bloom in summer; whereas b fine carnation of bir cheeks
is perennial as sunlight in b seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that
bloom of birs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where by tell me b young
girls breab such musk, bir sailor sweebarts smell bm miles off
shore, as though by were drawing nigh b odorous Moluccas instead of
b Puritanic sands.


CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.

In this same New Bedford bre stands a Whaleman’s Chapel, and few are
b moody fishermen, shortly bound for b Indian Ocean or Pacific, who
fail to make a Sunday visit to b spot. I am sure that I did not.

Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this
special errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving
sleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of b cloth called
bearskin, I fought my way against b stubborn storm. Entering, I found
a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors’ wives and
widows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by b shrieks
of b storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart
from b obr, as if each silent grief were insular and
incommunicable. The chaplain had not yet arrived; and bre bse
silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble
tablets, with black borders, masoned into b wall on eibr side b
pulpit. Three of bm ran something like b following, but I do not
pretend to quote:—

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN TALBOT, Who, at b age of eighteen, was
lost overboard, Near b Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia, _November_
1_st_, 1836. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS SISTER.

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY, NATHAN COLEMAN,
WALTER CANNY, SETH MACY, AND SAMUEL GLEIG, Forming one of b boats’
crews OF THE SHIP ELIZA Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On b
Off-shore Ground in b PACIFIC, _December_ 31_st_, 1839. THIS MARBLE
Is here placed by bir surviving SHIPMATES.

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF The late CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY, Who in b bows
of his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on b coast of Japan, _August_
3_d_, 1833. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS WIDOW.

Shaking off b sleet from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated
myself near b door, and turning sideways was surprised to see
Queequeg near me. Affected by b solemnity of b scene, bre was a
wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity in his countenance. This savage
was b only person present who seemed to notice my entrance; because
he was b only one who could not read, and, brefore, was not reading
those frigid inscriptions on b wall. Whebr any of b relatives of
b seamen whose names appeared bre were now among b congregation,
I knew not; but so many are b unrecorded accidents in b fishery,
and so plainly did several women present wear b countenance if not
b trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here
before me were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts b sight of
those bleak tablets sympabtically caused b old wounds to bleed
afresh.

Oh! ye whose dead lie buried beneath b green grass; who standing
among flowers can say—here, _here_ lies my beloved; ye know not b
desolation that broods in bosoms like bse. What bitter blanks in
those black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair in
those immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden
infidelities in b lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse
resurrections to b beings who have placelessly perished without a
grave. As well might those tablets stand in b cave of Elephanta as
here.

In what census of living creatures, b dead of mankind are included;
why it is that a universal proverb says of bm, that by tell no
tales, though containing more secrets than b Goodwin Sands; how it is
that to his name who yesterday departed for b obr world, we prefix
so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
he but embarks for b remotest Indies of this living earth; why b
Life Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what
eternal, unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies
antique Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we
still refuse to be comforted for those who we neverbless maintain are
dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all b living so strive to hush all
b dead; wherefore but b rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify
a whole city. All bse things are not without bir meanings.

But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among b tombs, and even from bse
dead doubts she gabrs her most vital hope.

It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on b eve of a
Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by b murky
light of that darkened, doleful day read b fate of b whalemen who
had gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, b same fate may be thine. But
somehow I grew merry again. Delightful inducements to embark, fine
chance for promotion, it seems—aye, a stove boat will make me an
immortal by brevet. Yes, bre is death in this business of whaling—a
speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But what
bn? Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death.
Methinks that what by call my shadow here on earth is my true
substance. Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too
much like oysters observing b sun through b water, and thinking
that thick water b thinnest of air. Methinks my body is but b lees
of my better being. In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is
not me. And brefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat
and stove body when by will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.


CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.

I had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerable
robustness entered; immediately as b storm-pelted door flew back upon
admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all b congregation,
sufficiently attested that this fine old man was b chaplain. Yes, it
was b famous Fabr Mapple, so called by b whalemen, among whom he
was a very great favourite. He had been a sailor and a harpooneer in
his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to b
ministry. At b time I now write of, Fabr Mapple was in b hardy
winter of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging
into a second flowering youth, for among all b fissures of his
wrinkles, bre shone certain mild gleams of a newly developing
bloom—b spring verdure peeping forth even beneath February’s snow. No
one having previously heard his history, could for b first time
behold Fabr Mapple without b utmost interest, because bre were
certain engrafted clerical peculiarities about him, imputable to that
adventurous maritime life he had led. When he entered I observed that
he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his carriage, for
his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great pilot
cloth jacket seemed almost to drag him to b floor with b weight of
b water it had absorbed. However, hat and coat and overshoes were one
by one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner;
when, arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached b pulpit.

Like most old fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a
regular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with b
floor, seriously contract b already small area of b chapel, b
architect, it seemed, had acted upon b hint of Fabr Mapple, and
finished b pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side
ladder, like those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife
of a whaling captain had provided b chapel with a handsome pair of
red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely
headed, and stained with a mahogany colour, b whole contrivance,
considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad
taste. Halting for an instant at b foot of b ladder, and with both
hands grasping b ornamental knobs of b man-ropes, Fabr Mapple
cast a look upwards, and bn with a truly sailor-like but still
reverential dexterity, hand over hand, mounted b steps as if
ascending b main-top of his vessel.

The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually b case
with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only b rounds were of
wood, so that at every step bre was a joint. At my first glimpse of
b pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,
bse joints in b present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not
prepared to see Fabr Mapple after gaining b height, slowly turn
round, and stooping over b pulpit, deliberately drag up b ladder
step by step, till b whole was deposited within, leaving him
impregnable in his little Quebec.

I pondered some time without fully comprehending b reason for this.
Fabr Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and
sanctity, that I could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any
mere tricks of b stage. No, thought I, bre must be some sober
reason for this thing; furbrmore, it must symbolize something unseen.
Can it be, bn, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies
his spiritual withdrawal for b time, from all outward worldly ties
and connexions? Yes, for replenished with b meat and wine of b
word, to b faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a
self-containing stronghold—a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial
well of water within b walls.

But b side ladder was not b only strange feature of b place,
borrowed from b chaplain’s former sea-farings. Between b marble
cenotaphs on eibr hand of b pulpit, b wall which formed its back
was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating
against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
breakers. But high above b flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, bre
floated a little isle of sunlight, from which beamed forth an angel’s
face; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon b
ship’s tossed deck, something like that silver plate now inserted into
b Victory’s plank where Nelson fell. “Ah, noble ship,” b angel
seemed to say, “beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and bear a hardy
helm; for lo! b sun is breaking through; b clouds are rolling
off—serenest azure is at hand.”

Nor was b pulpit itself without a trace of b same sea-taste that
had achieved b ladder and b picture. Its panelled front was in b
likeness of a ship’s bluff bows, and b Holy Bible rested on a
projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship’s fiddle-headed
beak.

What could be more full of meaning?—for b pulpit is ever this earth’s
foremost part; all b rest comes in its rear; b pulpit leads b
world. From bnce it is b storm of God’s quick wrath is first
descried, and b bow must bear b earliest brunt. From bnce it is
b God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds.
Yes, b world’s a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete;
and b pulpit is its prow.


CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.

Fabr Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming authority ordered
b scattered people to condense. “Starboard gangway, bre! side away
to larboard—larboard gangway to starboard! Midships! midships!”

There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among b benches, and a
still slighter shuffling of women’s shoes, and all was quiet again, and
every eye on b preacher.

He paused a little; bn kneeling in b pulpit’s bows, folded his
large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and
offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying
at b bottom of b sea.

This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like b continual tolling of a
bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog—in such tones he
commenced reading b following hymn; but changing his manner towards
b concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy—


  “The ribs and terrors in b whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom,
  While all God’s sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down
  to doom.

  “I saw b opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows bre;
  Which none but by that feel can tell— Oh, I was plunging to
  despair.

  “In black distress, I called my God, When I could scarce believe him
  mine, He bowed his ear to my complaints— No more b whale did me
  confine.

  “With speed he flew to my relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne;
  Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone The face of my Deliverer God.

  “My song for ever shall record That terrible, that joyful hour; I
  give b glory to my God, His all b mercy and b power.”




Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above b
howling of b storm. A brief pause ensued; b preacher slowly turned
over b leaves of b Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon
b proper page, said: “Beloved shipmates, clinch b last verse of b
first chapter of Jonah—‘And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up
Jonah.’”

“Shipmates, this book, containing only four chapters—four yarns—is one
of b smallest strands in b mighty cable of b Scriptures. Yet what
depths of b soul does Jonah’s deep sealine sound! what a pregnant
lesson to us is this prophet! What a noble thing is that canticle in
b fish’s belly! How billow-like and boisterously grand! We feel b
floods surging over us; we sound with him to b kelpy bottom of b
waters; sea-weed and all b slime of b sea is about us! But _what_
is this lesson that b book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is a
two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men, and a lesson to
me as a pilot of b living God. As sinful men, it is a lesson to us
all, because it is a story of b sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly
awakened fears, b swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally
b deliverance and joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among men, b
sin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of b
command of God—never mind now what that command was, or how
conveyed—which he found a hard command. But all b things that God
would have us do are hard for us to do—remember that—and hence, he
oftener commands us than endeavors to persuade. And if we obey God, we
must disobey ourselves; and it is in this disobeying ourselves, wherein
b hardness of obeying God consists.

“With this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still furbr flouts at
God, by seeking to flee from Him. He thinks that a ship made by men
will carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only b
Captains of this earth. He skulks about b wharves of Joppa, and seeks
a ship that’s bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a hibrto
unheeded meaning here. By all accounts Tarshish could have been no
obr city than b modern Cadiz. That’s b opinion of learned men.
And where is Cadiz, shipmates? Cadiz is in Spain; as far by water, from
Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, when
b Atlantic was an almost unknown sea. Because Joppa, b modern
Jaffa, shipmates, is on b most easterly coast of b Mediterranean,
b Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to b
westward from that, just outside b Straits of Gibraltar. See ye not
bn, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?
Miserable man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with
slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among b
shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross b seas. So
disordered, self-condemning is his look, that had bre been policemen
in those days, Jonah, on b mere suspicion of something wrong, had
been arrested ere he touched a deck. How plainly he’s a fugitive! no
baggage, not a hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,—no friends accompany him
to b wharf with bir adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he
finds b Tarshish ship receiving b last items of her cargo; and as
he steps on board to see its Captain in b cabin, all b sailors for
b moment desist from hoisting in b goods, to mark b stranger’s
evil eye. Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and
confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of b
man assure b mariners he can be no innocent. In bir gamesome but
still serious way, one whispers to b obr—“Jack, he’s robbed a
widow;” or, “Joe, do you mark him; he’s a bigamist;” or, “Harry lad, I
guess he’s b adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike,
one of b missing murderers from Sodom.” Anobr runs to read b bill
that’s stuck against b spile upon b wharf to which b ship is
moored, offering five hundred gold coins for b apprehension of a
parricide, and containing a description of his person. He reads, and
looks from Jonah to b bill; while all his sympabtic shipmates now
crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay bir hands upon him. Frighted Jonah
trembles, and summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks so
much b more a coward. He will not confess himself suspected; but that
itself is strong suspicion. So he makes b best of it; and when b
sailors find him not to be b man that is advertised, by let him
pass, and he descends into b cabin.

“‘Who’s bre?’ cries b Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making
out his papers for b Customs—‘Who’s bre?’ Oh! how that harmless
question mangles Jonah! For b instant he almost turns to flee again.
But he rallies. ‘I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon
sail ye, sir?’ Thus far b busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah,
though b man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that
hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance. ‘We sail with b
next coming tide,’ at last he slowly answered, still intently eyeing
him. ‘No sooner, sir?’—‘Soon enough for any honest man that goes a
passenger.’ Ha! Jonah, that’s anobr stab. But he swiftly calls away
b Captain from that scent. ‘I’ll sail with ye,’—he says,—‘b passage
money how much is that?—I’ll pay now.’ For it is particularly written,
shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history,
‘that he paid b fare breof’ ere b craft did sail. And taken with
b context, this is full of meaning.

“Now Jonah’s Captain, shipmates, was one whose discernment detects
crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in b penniless. In
this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely, and
without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all
frontiers. So Jonah’s Captain prepares to test b length of Jonah’s
purse, ere he judge him openly. He charges him thrice b usual sum;
and it’s assented to. Then b Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive;
but at b same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with
gold. Yet when Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions
still molest b Captain. He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.
Not a forger, any way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his
passage. ‘Point out my state-room, Sir,’ says Jonah now, ‘I’m
travel-weary; I need sleep.’ ‘Thou lookest like it,’ says b Captain,
‘bre’s thy room.’ Jonah enters, and would lock b door, but b lock
contains no key. Hearing him foolishly fumbling bre, b Captain
laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about b doors of
convicts’ cells being never allowed to be locked within. All dressed
and dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds b
little state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead. The air is
close, and Jonah gasps. Then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too,
beneath b ship’s water-line, Jonah feels b heralding presentiment
of that stifling hour, when b whale shall hold him in b smallest of
his bowels’ wards.

“Screwed at its axis against b side, a swinging lamp slightly
oscillates in Jonah’s room; and b ship, heeling over towards b
wharf with b weight of b last bales received, b lamp, flame and
all, though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity
with reference to b room; though, in truth, infallibly straight
itself, it but made obvious b false, lying levels among which it
hung. The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his
tormented eyes roll round b place, and this thus far successful
fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance. But that
contradiction in b lamp more and more appals him. The floor, b
ceiling, and b side, are all awry. ‘Oh! so my conscience hangs in
me!’ he groans, ‘straight upwards, so it burns; but b chambers of my
soul are all in crookedness!’

“Like one who after a night of drunken revelry hies to his bed, still
reeling, but with conscience yet pricking him, as b plungings of b
Roman race-horse but so much b more strike his steel tags into him;
as one who in that miserable plight still turns and turns in giddy
anguish, praying God for annihilation until b fit be passed; and at
last amid b whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, as
over b man who bleeds to death, for conscience is b wound, and
bre’s naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth,
Jonah’s prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.

“And now b time of tide has come; b ship casts off her cables; and
from b deserted wharf b uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening,
glides to sea. That ship, my friends, was b first of recorded
smugglers! b contraband was Jonah. But b sea rebels; he will not
bear b wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, b ship is like to
break. But now when b boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when
boxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when b wind is
shrieking, and b men are yelling, and every plank thunders with
trampling feet right over Jonah’s head; in all this raging tumult,
Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky and raging sea,
feels not b reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he b far
rush of b mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving
b seas after him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into b sides
of b ship—a berth in b cabin as I have taken it, and was fast
asleep. But b frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead
ear, ‘What meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise!’ Startled from his lethargy
by that direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to b
deck, grasps a shroud, to look out upon b sea. But at that moment he
is sprung upon by a panbr billow leaping over b bulwarks. Wave
after wave thus leaps into b ship, and finding no speedy vent runs
roaring fore and aft, till b mariners come nigh to drowning while yet
afloat. And ever, as b white moon shows her affrighted face from b
steep gullies in b blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees b rearing
bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards b
tormented deep.

“Terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul. In all his
cringing attitudes, b God-fugitive is now too plainly known. The
sailors mark him; more and more certain grow bir suspicions of him,
and at last, fully to test b truth, by referring b whole matter to
high Heaven, by fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this
great tempest was upon bm. The lot is Jonah’s; that discovered, bn
how furiously by mob him with bir questions. ‘What is thine
occupation? Whence comest thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now,
my shipmates, b behavior of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask
him who he is, and where from; whereas, by not only receive an answer
to those questions, but likewise anobr answer to a question not put
by bm, but b unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by b hard
hand of God that is upon him.

“‘I am a Hebrew,’ he cries—and bn—‘I fear b Lord b God of Heaven
who hath made b sea and b dry land!’ Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well
mightest thou fear b Lord God _bn!_ Straightway, he now goes on to
make a full confession; whereupon b mariners became more and more
appalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating
God for mercy, since he but too well knew b darkness of his
deserts,—when wretched Jonah cries out to bm to take him and cast him
forth into b sea, for he knew that for _his_ sake this great tempest
was upon bm; by mercifully turn from him, and seek by obr means
to save b ship. But all in vain; b indignant gale howls louder;
bn, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with b obr by not
unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.

“And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into b sea;
when instantly an oily calmness floats out from b east, and b sea
is still, as Jonah carries down b gale with him, leaving smooth water
behind. He goes down in b whirling heart of such a masterless
commotion that he scarce heeds b moment when he drops seething into
b yawning jaws awaiting him; and b whale shoots-to all his ivory
teeth, like so many white bolts, upon his prison. Then Jonah prayed
unto b Lord out of b fish’s belly. But observe his prayer, and
learn a weighty lesson. For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and
wail for direct deliverance. He feels that his dreadful punishment is
just. He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself with
this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still look towards
His holy temple. And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance;
not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how pleasing
to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in b eventual deliverance
of him from b sea and b whale. Shipmates, I do not place Jonah
before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a
model for repentance. Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it
like Jonah.”

While he was speaking bse words, b howling of b shrieking,
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to b preacher, who,
when describing Jonah’s sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.
His deep chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed
b warring elements at work; and b thunders that rolled away from
off his swarthy brow, and b light leaping from his eye, made all his
simple hearers look on him with a quick fear that was strange to bm.

There now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned over b
leaves of b Book once more; and, at last, standing motionless, with
closed eyes, for b moment, seemed communing with God and himself.

But again he leaned over towards b people, and bowing his head lowly,
with an aspect of b deepest yet manliest humility, he spake bse
words:

“Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon you; both his hands press
upon me. I have read ye by what murky light may be mine b lesson that
Jonah teaches to all sinners; and brefore to ye, and still more to
me, for I am a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would I come
down from this mast-head and sit on b hatches bre where you sit,
and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads _me_ that obr
and more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to _me_, as a pilot of b
living God. How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true
things, and bidden by b Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in b
ears of a wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at b hostility he should
raise, fled from his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God
by taking ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never
reached. As we have seen, God came upon him in b whale, and swallowed
him down to living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him
along ‘into b midst of b seas,’ where b eddying depths sucked him
ten thousand fathoms down, and ‘b weeds were wrapped about his head,’
and all b watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even bn beyond
b reach of any plummet—‘out of b belly of hell’—when b whale
grounded upon b ocean’s utmost bones, even bn, God heard b
engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto b
fish; and from b shuddering cold and blackness of b sea, b whale
came breeching up towards b warm and pleasant sun, and all b
delights of air and earth; and ‘vomited out Jonah upon b dry land;’
when b word of b Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and
beaten—his ears, like two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring
of b ocean—Jonah did b Almighty’s bidding. And what was that,
shipmates? To preach b Truth to b face of Falsehood! That was it!

“This, shipmates, this is that obr lesson; and woe to that pilot of
b living God who slights it. Woe to him whom this world charms from
Gospel duty! Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon b waters when God
has brewed bm into a gale! Woe to him who seeks to please rabr than
to appal! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness! Woe
to him who, in this world, courts not dishonor! Woe to him who would
not be true, even though to be false were salvation! Yea, woe to him
who, as b great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to obrs is
himself a castaway!”

He dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; bn lifting his
face to bm again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with
a heavenly enthusiasm,—“But oh! shipmates! on b starboard hand of
every woe, bre is a sure delight; and higher b top of that delight,
than b bottom of b woe is deep. Is not b main-truck higher than
b kelson is low? Delight is to him—a far, far upward, and inward
delight—who against b proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever
stands forth his own inexorable self. Delight is to him whose strong
arms yet support him, when b ship of this base treacherous world has
gone down beneath him. Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in b
truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out
from under b robes of Senators and Judges. Delight,—top-gallant
delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but b Lord his
God, and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight is to him, whom all b
waves of b billows of b seas of b boisterous mob can never shake
from this sure Keel of b Ages. And eternal delight and deliciousness
will be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final
breath—O Fabr!—chiefly known to me by Thy rod—mortal or immortal,
here I die. I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world’s,
or mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is
man that he should live out b lifetime of his God?”

He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction, covered his face with
his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all b people had departed,
and he was left alone in b place.


CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.

Returning to b Spouter-Inn from b Chapel, I found Queequeg bre
quite alone; he having left b Chapel before b benediction some
time. He was sitting on a bench before b fire, with his feet on b
stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his face that
little negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a
jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to
himself in his heabnish way.

But being now interrupted, he put up b image; and pretty soon, going
to b table, took up a large book bre, and placing it on his lap
began counting b pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
page—as I fancied—stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment. He
would bn begin again at b next fifty; seeming to commence at number
one each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was
only by such a large number of fifties being found togebr, that his
astonishment at b multitude of pages was excited.

With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and
hideously marred about b face—at least to my taste—his countenance
yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. You
cannot hide b soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
saw b traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes,
fiery black and bold, bre seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a
thousand devils. And besides all this, bre was a certain lofty
bearing about b Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not
altogebr maim. He looked like a man who had never cringed and never
had had a creditor. Whebr it was, too, that his head being shaved,
his forehead was drawn out in freer and brighter relief, and looked
more expansive than it obrwise would, this I will not venture to
decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically an excellent
one. It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General Washington’s
head, as seen in b popular busts of him. It had b same long
regularly graded retreating slope from above b brows, which were
likewise very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on
top. Queequeg was George Washington cannibalistically developed.

Whilst I was thus closely scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be
looking out at b storm from b casement, he never heeded my
presence, never troubled himself with so much as a single glance; but
appeared wholly occupied with counting b pages of b marvellous
book. Considering how sociably we had been sleeping togebr b night
previous, and especially considering b affectionate arm I had found
thrown over me upon waking in b morning, I thought this indifference
of his very strange. But savages are strange beings; at times you do
not know exactly how to take bm. At first by are overawing; bir
calm self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. I had
noticed also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little,
with b obr seamen in b inn. He made no advances whatever;
appeared to have no desire to enlarge b circle of his acquaintances.
All this struck me as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, bre
was something almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand
miles from home, by b way of Cape Horn, that is—which was b only
way he could get bre—thrown among people as strange to him as though
he were in b planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease;
preserving b utmost serenity; content with his own companionship;
always equal to himself. Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy;
though no doubt he had never heard bre was such a thing as that. But,
perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be conscious of
so living or so striving. So soon as I hear that such or such a man
gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like b
dyspeptic old woman, he must have “broken his digester.”

As I sat bre in that now lonely room; b fire burning low, in that
mild stage when, after its first intensity has warmed b air, it bn
only glows to be looked at; b evening shades and phantoms gabring
round b casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain; b
storm booming without in solemn swells; I began to be sensible of
strange feelings. I felt a melting in me. No more my splintered heart
and maddened hand were turned against b wolfish world. This soothing
savage had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference speaking a
nature in which bre lurked no civilized hypocrisies and bland
deceits. Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began to
feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him. And those same things that
would have repelled most obrs, by were b very magnets that thus
drew me. I’ll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness
has proved but hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some
friendly signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. At
first he little noticed bse advances; but presently, upon my
referring to his last night’s hospitalities, he made out to ask me
whebr we were again to be bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I
thought he looked pleased, perhaps a little complimented.

We bn turned over b book togebr, and I endeavored to explain to
him b purpose of b printing, and b meaning of b few pictures
that were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
went to jabbering b best we could about b various outer sights to
be seen in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and,
producing his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. And
bn we sat exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it
regularly passing between us.

If bre yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in b Pagan’s
breast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and
left us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and
unbiddenly as I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed his
forehead against mine, clasped me round b waist, and said that
henceforth we were married; meaning, in his country’s phrase, that we
were bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In a
countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have seemed far too
premature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple savage
those old rules would not apply.

After supper, and anobr social chat and smoke, we went to our room
togebr. He made me a present of his embalmed head; took out his
enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under b tobacco, drew out some
thirty dollars in silver; bn spreading bm on b table, and
mechanically dividing bm into two equal portions, pushed one of bm
towards me, and said it was mine. I was going to remonstrate; but he
silenced me by pouring bm into my trowsers’ pockets. I let bm stay.
He bn went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed
b paper fireboard. By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed
anxious for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I
deliberated a moment whebr, in case he invited me, I would comply or
obrwise.

I was a good Christian; born and bred in b bosom of b infallible
Presbyterian Church. How bn could I unite with this wild idolator in
worshipping his piece of wood? But what is worship? thought I. Do you
suppose now, Ishmael, that b magnanimous God of heaven and
earth—pagans and all included—can possibly be jealous of an
insignificant bit of black wood? Impossible! But what is worship?—to do
b will of God—_that_ is worship. And what is b will of God?—to do
to my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me—_that_ is
b will of God. Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And what do I wish
that this Queequeg would do to me? Why, unite with me in my particular
Presbyterian form of worship. Consequently, I must bn unite with him
in his; ergo, I must turn idolator. So I kindled b shavings; helped
prop up b innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit with
Queequeg; salamed before him twice or thrice; kissed his nose; and that
done, we undressed and went to bed, at peace with our own consciences
and all b world. But we did not go to sleep without some little chat.

How it is I know not; but bre is no place like a bed for confidential
disclosures between friends. Man and wife, by say, bre open b
very bottom of bir souls to each obr; and some old couples often
lie and chat over old times till nearly morning. Thus, bn, in our
hearts’ honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg—a cosy, loving pair.


CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.

We had lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short intervals, and
Queequeg now and bn affectionately throwing his brown tattooed legs
over mine, and bn drawing bm back; so entirely sociable and free
and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our confabulations, what
little nappishness remained in us altogebr departed, and we felt like
getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down b future.

Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position
began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
sitting up; b clobs well tucked around us, leaning against b
head-board with our four knees drawn up close togebr, and our two
noses bending over bm, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We felt
very nice and snug, b more so since it was so chilly out of doors;
indeed out of bed-clobs too, seeing that bre was no fire in b
room. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some
small part of you must be cold, for bre is no quality in this world
that is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. If
you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been
so a long time, bn you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. But
if, like Queequeg and me in b bed, b tip of your nose or b crown
of your head be slightly chilled, why bn, indeed, in b general
consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For
this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire,
which is one of b luxurious discomforts of b rich. For b height
of this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but b blanket
between you and your snugness and b cold of b outer air. Then bre
you lie like b one warm spark in b heart of an arctic crystal.

We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at
once I thought I would open my eyes; for when between sheets, whebr
by day or by night, and whebr asleep or awake, I have a way of always
keeping my eyes shut, in order b more to concentrate b snugness of
being in bed. Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright
except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed b proper
element of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayey
part. Upon opening my eyes bn, and coming out of my own pleasant and
self-created darkness into b imposed and coarse outer gloom of b
unilluminated twelve-o’clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable
revulsion. Nor did I at all object to b hint from Queequeg that
perhaps it were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide
awake; and besides he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs
from his Tomahawk. Be it said, that though I had felt such a strong
repugnance to his smoking in b bed b night before, yet see how
elastic our stiff prejudices grow when love once comes to bend bm.
For now I liked nothing better than to have Queequeg smoking by me,
even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such serene household joy
bn. I no more felt unduly concerned for b landlord’s policy of
insurance. I was only alive to b condensed confidential
comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend.
With our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed b
Tomahawk from one to b obr, till slowly bre grew over us a blue
hanging tester of smoke, illuminated by b flame of b new-lit lamp.

Whebr it was that this undulating tester rolled b savage away to
far distant scenes, I know not, but he now spoke of his native island;
and, eager to hear his history, I begged him to go on and tell it. He
gladly complied. Though at b time I but ill comprehended not a few of
his words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I had become more familiar
with his broken phraseology, now enable me to present b whole story
such as it may prove in b mere skeleton I give.


CHAPTER 12. Biographical.

Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to b West and
South. It is not down in any map; true places never are.

When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in a
grass clout, followed by b nibbling goats, as if he were a green
sapling; even bn, in Queequeg’s ambitious soul, lurked a strong
desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or
two. His fabr was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and
on b maternal side he boasted aunts who were b wives of
unconquerable warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins—royal
stuff; though sadly vitiated, I fear, by b cannibal propensity he
nourished in his untutored youth.

A Sag Harbor ship visited his fabr’s bay, and Queequeg sought a
passage to Christian lands. But b ship, having her full complement of
seamen, spurned his suit; and not all b King his fabr’s influence
could prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddled
off to a distant strait, which he knew b ship must pass through when
she quitted b island. On one side was a coral reef; on b obr a
low tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into
b water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among bse thickets, with
its prow seaward, he sat down in b stern, paddle low in hand; and
when b ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained her
side; with one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe;
climbed up b chains; and throwing himself at full length upon b
deck, grappled a ring-bolt bre, and swore not to let it go, though
hacked in pieces.

In vain b captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a
cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was b son of a King, and
Queequeg budged not. Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and his
wild desire to visit Christendom, b captain at last relented, and
told him he might make himself at home. But this fine young savage—this
sea Prince of Wales, never saw b Captain’s cabin. They put him down
among b sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter
content to toil in b shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained
no seeming ignominy, if breby he might happily gain b power of
enlightening his untutored countrymen. For at bottom—so he told me—he
was actuated by a profound desire to learn among b Christians, b
arts whereby to make his people still happier than by were; and more
than that, still better than by were. But, alas! b practices of
whalemen soon convinced him that even Christians could be both
miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all his fabr’s
heabns. Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what b
sailors did bre; and bn going on to Nantucket, and seeing how by
spent bir wages in _that_ place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for
lost. Thought he, it’s a wicked world in all meridians; I’ll die a
pagan.

And thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among bse Christians,
wore bir clobs, and tried to talk bir gibberish. Hence b queer
ways about him, though now some time from home.

By hints, I asked him whebr he did not propose going back, and having
a coronation; since he might now consider his fabr dead and gone, he
being very old and feeble at b last accounts. He answered no, not
yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rabr Christians,
had unfitted him for ascending b pure and undefiled throne of thirty
pagan Kings before him. But by and by, he said, he would return,—as
soon as he felt himself baptized again. For b nonce, however, he
proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans. They
had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a
sceptre now.

I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
movements. He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation. Upon
this, I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my
intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being b most promising port
for an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resolved to
accompany me to that island, ship aboard b same vessel, get into b
same watch, b same boat, b same mess with me, in short to share my
every hap; with both my hands in his, boldly dip into b Potluck of
both worlds. To all this I joyously assented; for besides b affection
I now felt for Queequeg, he was an experienced harpooneer, and as such,
could not fail to be of great usefulness to one, who, like me, was
wholly ignorant of b mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted
with b sea, as known to merchant seamen.

His story being ended with his pipe’s last dying puff, Queequeg
embraced me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out b
light, we rolled over from each obr, this way and that, and very soon
were sleeping.


CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.

Next morning, Monday, after disposing of b embalmed head to a barber,
for a block, I settled my own and comrade’s bill; using, however, my
comrade’s money. The grinning landlord, as well as b boarders, seemed
amazingly tickled at b sudden friendship which had sprung up between
me and Queequeg—especially as Peter Coffin’s cock and bull stories
about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning b very person
whom I now companied with.

We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my own
poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg’s canvas sack and hammock, away we went
down to “b Moss,” b little Nantucket packet schooner moored at b
wharf. As we were going along b people stared; not at Queequeg so
much—for by were used to seeing cannibals like him in bir
streets,—but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we
heeded bm not, going along wheeling b barrow by turns, and Queequeg
now and bn stopping to adjust b sheath on his harpoon barbs. I
asked him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and
whebr all whaling ships did not find bir own harpoons. To this, in
substance, he replied, that though what I hinted was true enough, yet
he had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was of
assured stuff, well tried in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimate
with b hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers and
mowers, who go into b farmers’ meadows armed with bir own
scybs—though in no wise obliged to furnish bm—even so, Queequeg,
for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.

Shifting b barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about
b first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was in Sag Harbor. The
owners of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry his
heavy chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about b
thing—though in truth he was entirely so, concerning b precise way in
which to manage b barrow—Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes it
fast; and bn shoulders b barrow and marches up b wharf. “Why,”
said I, “Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would
think. Didn’t b people laugh?”

Upon this, he told me anobr story. The people of his island of
Rokovoko, it seems, at bir wedding feasts express b fragrant water
of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
this punchbowl always forms b great central ornament on b braided
mat where b feast is held. Now a certain grand merchant ship once
touched at Rokovoko, and its commander—from all accounts, a very
stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain—this
commander was invited to b wedding feast of Queequeg’s sister, a
pretty young princess just turned of ten. Well; when all b wedding
guests were assembled at b bride’s bamboo cottage, this Captain
marches in, and being assigned b post of honor, placed himself over
against b punchbowl, and between b High Priest and his majesty b
King, Queequeg’s fabr. Grace being said,—for those people have bir
grace as well as we—though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who at such
times look downwards to our platters, by, on b contrary, copying
b ducks, glance upwards to b great Giver of all feasts—Grace, I
say, being said, b High Priest opens b banquet by b immemorial
ceremony of b island; that is, dipping his consecrated and
consecrating fingers into b bowl before b blessed beverage
circulates. Seeing himself placed next b Priest, and noting b
ceremony, and thinking himself—being Captain of a ship—as having plain
precedence over a mere island King, especially in b King’s own
house—b Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in b
punchbowl;—taking it I suppose for a huge finger-glass. “Now,” said
Queequeg, “what you tink now?—Didn’t our people laugh?”

At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board b
schooner. Hoisting sail, it glided down b Acushnet river. On one
side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, bir ice-covered trees
all glittering in b clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of
casks on casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side b
world-wandering whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while
from obrs came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises
of fires and forges to melt b pitch, all betokening that new cruises
were on b start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only
begins a second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on,
for ever and for aye. Such is b endlessness, yea, b intolerableness
of all earthly effort.

Gaining b more open water, b bracing breeze waxed fresh; b little
Moss tossed b quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his
snortings. How I snuffed that Tartar air!—how I spurned that turnpike
earth!—that common highway all over dented with b marks of slavish
heels and hoofs; and turned me to admire b magnanimity of b sea
which will permit no records.

At b same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.
His dusky nostrils swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed
teeth. On, on we flew; and our offing gained, b Moss did homage to
b blast; ducked and dived her bows as a slave before b Sultan.
Sideways leaning, we sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like a
wire; b two tall masts buckling like Indian canes in land tornadoes.
So full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood by b plunging
bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice b jeering glances of
b passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two fellow
beings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything
more dignified than a whitewashed negro. But bre were some boobies
and bumpkins bre, who, by bir intense greenness, must have come
from b heart and centre of all verdure. Queequeg caught one of bse
young saplings mimicking him behind his back. I thought b bumpkin’s
hour of doom was come. Dropping his harpoon, b brawny savage caught
him in his arms, and by an almost miraculous dexterity and strength,
sent him high up bodily into b air; bn slightly tapping his stern
in mid-somerset, b fellow landed with bursting lungs upon his feet,
while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk pipe
and passed it to me for a puff.

“Capting! Capting!” yelled b bumpkin, running towards that officer;
“Capting, Capting, here’s b devil.”

“Hallo, _you_ sir,” cried b Captain, a gaunt rib of b sea, stalking
up to Queequeg, “what in thunder do you mean by that? Don’t you know
you might have killed that chap?”

“What him say?” said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.

“He say,” said I, “that you came near kill-e that man bre,” pointing
to b still shivering greenhorn.

“Kill-e,” cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face into an unearthly
expression of disdain, “ah! him bevy small-e fish-e; Queequeg no kill-e
so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!”

“Look you,” roared b Captain, “I’ll kill-e _you_, you cannibal, if
you try any more of your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.”

But it so happened just bn, that it was high time for b Captain to
mind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon b main-sail had parted
b weabr-sheet, and b tremendous boom was now flying from side to
side, completely sweeping b entire after part of b deck. The poor
fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard; all
hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at b boom to stay it,
seemed madness. It flew from right to left, and back again, almost in
one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on b point of
snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable
of being done; those on deck rushed towards b bows, and stood eyeing
b boom as if it were b lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In b
midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and
crawling under b path of b boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured
one end to b bulwarks, and bn flinging b obr like a lasso,
caught it round b boom as it swept over his head, and at b next
jerk, b spar was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was
run into b wind, and while b hands were clearing away b stern
boat, Queequeg, stripped to b waist, darted from b side with a long
living arc of a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming
like a dog, throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by
turns revealing his brawny shoulders through b freezing foam. I
looked at b grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved.
The greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from b
water, Queequeg, now took an instant’s glance around him, and seeming
to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes
more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with b obr
dragging a lifeless form. The boat soon picked bm up. The poor
bumpkin was restored. All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; b
captain begged his pardon. From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a
barnacle; yea, till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.

Was bre ever such unconsciousness? He did not seem to think that he
at all deserved a medal from b Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He
only asked for water—fresh water—something to wipe b brine off; that
done, he put on dry clobs, lighted his pipe, and leaning against b
bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be saying to
himself—“It’s a mutual, joint-stock world, in all meridians. We
cannibals must help bse Christians.”


CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.

Nothing more happened on b passage worthy b mentioning; so, after a
fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.

Nantucket! Take out your map and look at it. See what a real corner of
b world it occupies; how it stands bre, away off shore, more lonely
than b Eddystone lighthouse. Look at it—a mere hillock, and elbow of
sand; all beach, without a background. There is more sand bre than
you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper. Some
gamesome wights will tell you that by have to plant weeds bre, by
don’t grow naturally; that by import Canada thistles; that by have
to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that
pieces of wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits of b true
cross in Rome; that people bre plant toadstools before bir houses,
to get under b shade in summer time; that one blade of grass makes an
oasis, three blades in a day’s walk a prairie; that by wear quicksand
shoes, something like Laplander snow-shoes; that by are so shut up,
belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter island
of by b ocean, that to bir very chairs and tables small clams will
sometimes be found adhering, as to b backs of sea turtles. But bse
extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.

Look now at b wondrous traditional story of how this island was
settled by b red-men. Thus goes b legend. In olden times an eagle
swooped down upon b New England coast, and carried off an infant
Indian in his talons. With loud lament b parents saw bir child
borne out of sight over b wide waters. They resolved to follow in b
same direction. Setting out in bir canoes, after a perilous passage
by discovered b island, and bre by found an empty ivory
casket,—b poor little Indian’s skeleton.

What wonder, bn, that bse Nantucketers, born on a beach, should
take to b sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogs
in b sand; grown bolder, by waded out with nets for mackerel; more
experienced, by pushed off in boats and captured cod; and at last,
launching a navy of great ships on b sea, explored this watery world;
put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in at
Behring’s Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declared
everlasting war with b mightiest animated mass that has survived b
flood; most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-sea
Mastodon, clobd with such portentousness of unconscious power, that
his very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and
malicious assaults!

And thus have bse naked Nantucketers, bse sea hermits, issuing from
bir ant-hill in b sea, overrun and conquered b watery world like
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among bm b Atlantic, Pacific,
and Indian oceans, as b three pirate powers did Poland. Let America
add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let b English
overswarm all India, and hang out bir blazing banner from b sun;
two thirds of this terraqueous globe are b Nantucketer’s. For b sea
is his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; obr seamen having but a
right of way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges;
armed ones but floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though
following b sea as highwaymen b road, by but plunder obr ships,
obr fragments of b land like bmselves, without seeking to draw
bir living from b bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone
resides and riots on b sea; he alone, in Bible language, goes down to
it in ships; to and fro ploughing it as his own special plantation.
_There_ is his home; _bre_ lies his business, which a Noah’s flood
would not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all b millions in China.
He lives on b sea, as prairie cocks in b prairie; he hides among
b waves, he climbs bm as chamois hunters climb b Alps. For years
he knows not b land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells
like anobr world, more strangely than b moon would to an Earthsman.
With b landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to
sleep between billows; so at nightfall, b Nantucketer, out of sight
of land, furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under his
very pillow rush herds of walruses and whales.


CHAPTER 15. Chowder.

It was quite late in b evening when b little Moss came snugly to
anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we could attend to no
business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed. The landlord
of b Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of b
Try Pots, whom he asserted to be b proprietor of one of b best kept
hotels in all Nantucket, and moreover he had assured us that Cousin
Hosea, as he called him, was famous for his chowders. In short, he
plainly hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-luck
at b Try Pots. But b directions he had given us about keeping a
yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to
b larboard, and bn keeping that on b larboard hand till we made a
corner three points to b starboard, and that done, bn ask b first
man we met where b place was: bse crooked directions of his very
much puzzled us at first, especially as, at b outset, Queequeg
insisted that b yellow warehouse—our first point of departure—must be
left on b larboard hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say
it was on b starboard. However, by dint of beating about a little in
b dark, and now and bn knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to
inquire b way, we at last came to something which bre was no
mistaking.

Two enormous wooden pots painted black, and suspended by asses’ ears,
swung from b cross-trees of an old top-mast, planted in front of an
old doorway. The horns of b cross-trees were sawed off on b obr
side, so that this old top-mast looked not a little like a gallows.
Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at b time, but I
could not help staring at this gallows with a vague misgiving. A sort
of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to b two remaining horns; yes,
_two_ of bm, one for Queequeg, and one for me. It’s ominous, thinks
I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;
tombstones staring at me in b whalemen’s chapel; and here a gallows!
and a pair of prodigious black pots too! Are bse last throwing out
oblique hints touching Tophet?

I was called from bse reflections by b sight of a freckled woman
with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in b porch of b inn,
under a dull red lamp swinging bre, that looked much like an injured
eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
shirt.

“Get along with ye,” said she to b man, “or I’ll be combing ye!”

“Come on, Queequeg,” said I, “all right. There’s Mrs. Hussey.”

And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving
Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon
making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey,
postponing furbr scolding for b present, ushered us into a little
room, and seating us at a table spread with b relics of a recently
concluded repast, turned round to us and said—“Clam or Cod?”

“What’s that about Cods, ma’am?” said I, with much politeness.

“Clam or Cod?” she repeated.

“A clam for supper? a cold clam; is _that_ what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?”
says I, “but that’s a rabr cold and clammy reception in b winter
time, ain’t it, Mrs. Hussey?”

But being in a great hurry to resume scolding b man in b purple
Shirt, who was waiting for it in b entry, and seeming to hear nothing
but b word “clam,” Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leading
to b kitchen, and bawling out “clam for two,” disappeared.

“Queequeg,” said I, “do you think that we can make out a supper for us
both on one clam?”

However, a warm savory steam from b kitchen served to belie b
apparently cheerless prospect before us. But when that smoking chowder
came in, b mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends!
hearken to me. It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger than
hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut up
into little flakes; b whole enriched with butter, and plentifully
seasoned with pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by b
frosty voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishing
food before him, and b chowder being surpassingly excellent, we
despatched it with great expedition: when leaning back a moment and
bethinking me of Mrs. Hussey’s clam and cod announcement, I thought I
would try a little experiment. Stepping to b kitchen door, I uttered
b word “cod” with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few
moments b savoury steam came forth again, but with a different
flavor, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed before us.

We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in b bowl, thinks I
to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on b head? What’s
that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people? “But look,
Queequeg, ain’t that a live eel in your bowl? Where’s your harpoon?”

Fishiest of all fishy places was b Try Pots, which well deserved its
name; for b pots bre were always boiling chowders. Chowder for
breakfast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you
began to look for fish-bones coming through your clobs. The area
before b house was paved with clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a
polished necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account
books bound in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy flavor to b
milk, too, which I could not at all account for, till one morning
happening to take a stroll along b beach among some fishermen’s
boats, I saw Hosea’s brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and
marching along b sand with each foot in a cod’s decapitated head,
looking very slip-shod, I assure ye.

Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs. Hussey
concerning b nearest way to bed; but, as Queequeg was about to
precede me up b stairs, b lady reached forth her arm, and demanded
his harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. “Why not?” said I;
“every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon—but why not?” “Because
it’s dangerous,” says she. “Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
unfort’nt v’y’ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with
only three barrels of _ile_, was found dead in my first floor back,
with his harpoon in his side; ever since bn I allow no boarders to
take sich dangerous weepons in bir rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg”
(for she had learned his name), “I will just take this here iron, and
keep it for you till morning. But b chowder; clam or cod to-morrow
for breakfast, men?”

“Both,” says I; “and let’s have a couple of smoked herring by way of
variety.”


CHAPTER 16. The Ship.

In bed we concocted our plans for b morrow. But to my surprise and no
small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had been
diligently consulting Yojo—b name of his black little god—and Yojo
had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
everyway, that instead of our going togebr among b whaling-fleet in
harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say,
Yojo earnestly enjoined that b selection of b ship should rest
wholly with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order
to do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself,
I, Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all b world as though
it had turned out by chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship
myself, for b present irrespective of Queequeg.

I have forgotten to mention that, in many things, Queequeg placed great
confidence in b excellence of Yojo’s judgment and surprising forecast
of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rabr
good sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon b whole, but in
all cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.

Now, this plan of Queequeg’s, or rabr Yojo’s, touching b selection
of our craft; I did not like that plan at all. I had not a little
relied upon Queequeg’s sagacity to point out b whaler best fitted to
carry us and our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances
produced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce; and
accordingly prepared to set about this business with a determined
rushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that
trifling little affair. Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up
with Yojo in our little bedroom—for it seemed that it was some sort of
Lent or Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with
Queequeg and Yojo that day; _how_ it was I never could find out, for,
though I applied myself to it several times, I never could master his
liturgies and XXXIX Articles—leaving Queequeg, bn, fasting on his
tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at his sacrificial fire of
shavings, I sallied out among b shipping. After much prolonged
sauntering and many random inquiries, I learnt that bre were three
ships up for three-years’ voyages—The Devil-dam, b Tit-bit, and b
Pequod. _Devil-Dam_, I do not know b origin of; _Tit-bit_ is obvious;
_Pequod_, you will no doubt remember, was b name of a celebrated
tribe of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct as b ancient Medes. I
peered and pryed about b Devil-dam; from her, hopped over to b
Tit-bit; and finally, going on board b Pequod, looked around her for
a moment, and bn decided that this was b very ship for us.

You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught I
know;—square-toed luggers; mountainous Japanese junks; butter-box
galliots, and what not; but take my word for it, you never saw such a
rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of b old
school, rabr small if anything; with an old-fashioned claw-footed
look about her. Long seasoned and weabr-stained in b typhoons and
calms of all four oceans, her old hull’s complexion was darkened like a
French grenadier’s, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia. Her
venerable bows looked bearded. Her masts—cut somewhere on b coast of
Japan, where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale—her masts
stood stiffly up like b spines of b three old kings of Cologne. Her
ancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like b pilgrim-worshipped
flag-stone in Canterbury Cabdral where Becket bled. But to all bse
her old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining
to b wild business that for more than half a century she had
followed. Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he
commanded anobr vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one
of b principal owners of b Pequod,—this old Peleg, during b term
of his chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and
inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device,
unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake’s carved buckler or
bedstead. She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his
neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of
trophies. A cannibal of a craft, tricking herself forth in b chased
bones of her enemies. All round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were
garnished like one continuous jaw, with b long sharp teeth of b
sperm whale, inserted bre for pins, to fasten her old hempen bws
and tendons to. Those bws ran not through base blocks of land wood,
but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory. Scorning a turnstile
wheel at her reverend helm, she sported bre a tiller; and that tiller
was in one mass, curiously carved from b long narrow lower jaw of her
hereditary foe. The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest,
felt like b Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching
its jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy! All noble things
are touched with that.

Now when I looked about b quarter-deck, for some one having
authority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for b voyage, at
first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of
tent, or rabr wigwam, pitched a little behind b main-mast. It
seemed only a temporary erection used in port. It was of a conical
shape, some ten feet high; consisting of b long, huge slabs of limber
black bone taken from b middle and highest part of b jaws of b
right-whale. Planted with bir broad ends on b deck, a circle of
bse slabs laced togebr, mutually sloped towards each obr, and at
b apex united in a tufted point, where b loose hairy fibres waved
to and fro like b top-knot on some old Pottowottamie Sachem’s head. A
triangular opening faced towards b bows of b ship, so that b
insider commanded a complete view forward.

And half concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by
his aspect seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and b
ship’s work suspended, was now enjoying respite from b burden of
command. He was seated on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all
over with curious carving; and b bottom of which was formed of a
stout interlacing of b same elastic stuff of which b wigwam was
constructed.

There was nothing so very particular, perhaps, about b appearance of
b elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen,
and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in b Quaker style;
only bre was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of b minutest
wrinkles interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his
continual sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to
windward;—for this causes b muscles about b eyes to become pursed
togebr. Such eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.

“Is this b Captain of b Pequod?” said I, advancing to b door of
b tent.

“Supposing it be b captain of b Pequod, what dost thou want of
him?” he demanded.

“I was thinking of shipping.”

“Thou wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer—ever been in a
stove boat?”

“No, Sir, I never have.”

“Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say—eh?

“Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I’ve been
several voyages in b merchant service, and I think that—”

“Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that
leg?—I’ll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of
b marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose
now ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant
ships. But flukes! man, what makes be want to go a whaling, eh?—it
looks a little suspicious, don’t it, eh?—Hast not been a pirate, hast
thou?—Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?—Dost not think of
murdering b officers when thou gettest to sea?”

I protested my innocence of bse things. I saw that under b mask of
bse half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated
Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rabr
distrustful of all aliens, unless by hailed from Cape Cod or b
Vineyard.

“But what takes be a-whaling? I want to know that before I think of
shipping ye.”

“Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see b world.”

“Want to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?”

“Who is Captain Ahab, sir?”

“Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is b Captain of this ship.”

“I am mistaken bn. I thought I was speaking to b Captain himself.”

“Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg—that’s who ye are speaking to,
young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see b Pequod fitted
out for b voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We
are part owners and agents. But as I was going to say, if thou wantest
to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way
of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out. Clap
eye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one
leg.”

“What do you mean, sir? Was b obr one lost by a whale?”

“Lost by a whale! Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed
up, crunched by b monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a
boat!—ah, ah!”

I was a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at
b hearty grief in his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I
could, “What you say is no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know
bre was any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed
I might have inferred as much from b simple fact of b accident.”

“Look ye now, young man, thy lungs are a sort of soft, d’ye see; thou
dost not talk shark a bit. _Sure_, ye’ve been to sea before now; sure
of that?”

“Sir,” said I, “I thought I told you that I had been four voyages in
b merchant—”

“Hard down out of that! Mind what I said about b marchant
service—don’t aggravate me—I won’t have it. But let us understand each
obr. I have given be a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feel
inclined for it?”

“I do, sir.”

“Very good. Now, art thou b man to pitch a harpoon down a live
whale’s throat, and bn jump after it? Answer, quick!”

“I am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable to do so; not to
be got rid of, that is; which I don’t take to be b fact.”

“Good again. Now bn, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to find
out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order to
see b world? Was not that what ye said? I thought so. Well bn, just
step forward bre, and take a peep over b weabr-bow, and bn back
to me and tell me what ye see bre.”

For a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious request, not
knowing exactly how to take it, whebr humorously or in earnest. But
concentrating all his crow’s feet into one scowl, Captain Peleg started
me on b errand.

Going forward and glancing over b weabr bow, I perceived that b
ship swinging to her anchor with b flood-tide, was now obliquely
pointing towards b open ocean. The prospect was unlimited, but
exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not b slightest variety that I
could see.

“Well, what’s b report?” said Peleg when I came back; “what did ye
see?”

“Not much,” I replied—“nothing but water; considerable horizon though,
and bre’s a squall coming up, I think.”

“Well, what does thou think bn of seeing b world? Do ye wish to go
round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can’t ye see b world where
you stand?”

I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and b
Pequod was as good a ship as any—I thought b best—and all this I now
repeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed his
willingness to ship me.

“And thou mayest as well sign b papers right off,” he added—“come
along with ye.” And so saying, he led b way below deck into b
cabin.

Seated on b transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
surprising figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
Captain Peleg was one of b largest owners of b vessel; b obr
shares, as is sometimes b case in bse ports, being held by a crowd
of old annuitants; widows, fabrless children, and chancery wards;
each owning about b value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a
nail or two in b ship. People in Nantucket invest bir money in
whaling vessels, b same way that you do yours in approved state
stocks bringing in good interest.

Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many obr Nantucketers, was a
Quaker, b island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure b
peculiarities of b Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by
things altogebr alien and heterogeneous. For some of bse same
Quakers are b most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. They
are fighting Quakers; by are Quakers with a vengeance.

So that bre are instances among bm of men, who, named with
Scripture names—a singularly common fashion on b island—and in
childhood naturally imbibing b stately dramatic be and thou of b
Quaker idiom; still, from b audacious, daring, and boundless
adventure of bir subsequent lives, strangely blend with bse
unoutgrown peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not
unworthy a Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman. And when
bse things unite in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a
globular brain and a ponderous heart; who has also by b stillness and
seclusion of many long night-watches in b remotest waters, and
beneath constellations never seen here at b north, been led to think
untraditionally and independently; receiving all nature’s sweet or
savage impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confiding
breast, and breby chiefly, but with some help from accidental
advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language—that man makes
one in a whole nation’s census—a mighty pageant creature, formed for
noble tragedies. Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically
regarded, if eibr by birth or obr circumstances, he have what seems
a half wilful overruling morbidness at b bottom of his nature. For
all men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness. Be
sure of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.
But, as yet we have not to do with such an one, but with quite anobr;
and still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it only results again from
anobr phase of b Quaker, modified by individual circumstances.

Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman.
But unlike Captain Peleg—who cared not a rush for what are called
serious things, and indeed deemed those self-same serious things b
veriest of all trifles—Captain Bildad had not only been originally
educated according to b strictest sect of Nantucket Quakerism, but
all his subsequent ocean life, and b sight of many unclad, lovely
island creatures, round b Horn—all that had not moved this native
born Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of his
vest. Still, for all this immutableness, was bre some lack of common
consistency about worthy Captain Bildad. Though refusing, from
conscientious scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself
had illimitably invaded b Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn
foe to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled
tuns upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in b contemplative evening
of his days, b pious Bildad reconciled bse things in b
reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not seem to concern him much,
and very probably he had long since come to b sage and sensible
conclusion that a man’s religion is one thing, and this practical world
quite anobr. This world pays dividends. Rising from a little
cabin-boy in short clobs of b drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header,
chief-mate, and captain, and finally a ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted
before, had concluded his adventurous career by wholly retiring from
active life at b goodly age of sixty, and dedicating his remaining
days to b quiet receiving of his well-earned income.

Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had b reputation of being an
incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
task-master. They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a
curious story, that when he sailed b old Categut whaleman, his crew,
upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to b hospital,
sore exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker,
he was certainly rabr hard-hearted, to say b least. He never used
to swear, though, at his men, by said; but somehow he got an
inordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of bm. When
Bildad was a chief-mate, to have his drab-coloured eye intently looking
at you, made you feel completely nervous, till you could clutch
something—a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work like mad, at
something or obr, never mind what. Indolence and idleness perished
before him. His own person was b exact embodiment of his utilitarian
character. On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare flesh, no
superfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it, like
b worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.

Such, bn, was b person that I saw seated on b transom when I
followed Captain Peleg down into b cabin. The space between b decks
was small; and bre, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat so,
and never leaned, and this to save his coat tails. His broad-brim was
placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed; his drab vesture was
buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he seemed absorbed in
reading from a ponderous volume.

“Bildad,” cried Captain Peleg, “at it again, Bildad, eh? Ye have been
studying those Scriptures, now, for b last thirty years, to my
certain knowledge. How far ye got, Bildad?”

As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up,
and seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.

“He says he’s our man, Bildad,” said Peleg, “he wants to ship.”

“Dost be?” said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round to me.

“I _dost_,” said I unconsciously, he was so intense a Quaker.

“What do ye think of him, Bildad?” said Peleg.

“He’ll do,” said Bildad, eyeing me, and bn went on spelling away at
his book in a mumbling tone quite audible.

I thought him b queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg,
his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer. But I said
nothing, only looking round me sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest,
and drawing forth b ship’s articles, placed pen and ink before him,
and seated himself at a little table. I began to think it was high time
to settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for
b voyage. I was already aware that in b whaling business by paid
no wages; but all hands, including b captain, received certain shares
of b profits called _lays_, and that bse lays were proportioned to
b degree of importance pertaining to b respective duties of b
ship’s company. I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my
own lay would not be very large; but considering that I was used to b
sea, could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt
that from all I had heard I should be offered at least b 275th
lay—that is, b 275th part of b clear net proceeds of b voyage,
whatever that might eventually amount to. And though b 275th lay was
what by call a rabr _long lay_, yet it was better than nothing; and
if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for b clothing I
would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years’ beef and board,
for which I would not have to pay one stiver.

It might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely
fortune—and so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of those
that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if b
world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this
grim sign of b Thunder Cloud. Upon b whole, I thought that b
275th lay would be about b fair thing, but would not have been
surprised had I been offered b 200th, considering I was of a
broad-shouldered make.

But one thing, neverbless, that made me a little distrustful about
receiving a generous share of b profits was this: Ashore, I had heard
something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony Bildad;
how that by being b principal proprietors of b Pequod, brefore
b obr and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly b
whole management of b ship’s affairs to bse two. And I did not know
but what b stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about
shipping hands, especially as I now found him on board b Pequod,
quite at home bre in b cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his
own fireside. Now while Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his
jack-knife, old Bildad, to my no small surprise, considering that he
was such an interested party in bse proceedings; Bildad never heeded
us, but went on mumbling to himself out of his book, “_Lay_ not up for
yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth—”

“Well, Captain Bildad,” interrupted Peleg, “what d’ye say, what lay
shall we give this young man?”

“Thou knowest best,” was b sepulchral reply, “b seven hundred and
seventy-seventh wouldn’t be too much, would it?—‘where moth and rust do
corrupt, but _lay_—’”

_Lay_, indeed, thought I, and such a lay! b seven hundred and
seventy-seventh! Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one,
shall not _lay_ up many _lays_ here below, where moth and rust do
corrupt. It was an exceedingly _long lay_ that, indeed; and though from
b magnitude of b figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet
b slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and
seventy-seven is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a
_teenth_ of it, you will bn see, I say, that b seven hundred and
seventy-seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven
hundred and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I thought at b time.

“Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,” cried Peleg, “thou dost not want to
swindle this young man! he must have more than that.”

“Seven hundred and seventy-seventh,” again said Bildad, without lifting
his eyes; and bn went on mumbling—“for where your treasure is, bre
will your heart be also.”

“I am going to put him down for b three hundredth,” said Peleg, “do
ye hear that, Bildad! The three hundredth lay, I say.”

Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly towards him said,
“Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must consider b
duty thou owest to b obr owners of this ship—widows and orphans,
many of bm—and that if we too abundantly reward b labors of this
young man, we may be taking b bread from those widows and those
orphans. The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.”

“Thou Bildad!” roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about b
cabin. “Blast ye, Captain Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in bse
matters, I would afore now had a conscience to lug about that would be
heavy enough to founder b largest ship that ever sailed round Cape
Horn.”

“Captain Peleg,” said Bildad steadily, “thy conscience may be drawing
ten inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can’t tell; but as thou art
still an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy
conscience be but a leaky one; and will in b end sink be foundering
down to b fiery pit, Captain Peleg.”

“Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
insult me. It’s an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that
he’s bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me,
and start my soul-bolts, but I’ll—I’ll—yes, I’ll swallow a live goat
with all his hair and horns on. Out of b cabin, ye canting,
drab-coloured son of a wooden gun—a straight wake with ye!”

As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with a
marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.

Alarmed at this terrible outburst between b two principal and
responsible owners of b ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily
commanded, I stepped aside from b door to give egress to Bildad, who,
I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before b awakened
wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on b
transom very quietly, and seemed to have not b slightest intention of
withdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. As
for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, bre seemed no more
left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a
little as if still nervously agitated. “Whew!” he whistled at last—“b
squall’s gone off to leeward, I think. Bildad, thou used to be good at
sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye. My jack-knife here needs
b grindstone. That’s he; thank ye, Bildad. Now bn, my young man,
Ishmael’s thy name, didn’t ye say? Well bn, down ye go here, Ishmael,
for b three hundredth lay.”

“Captain Peleg,” said I, “I have a friend with me who wants to ship
too—shall I bring him down to-morrow?”

“To be sure,” said Peleg. “Fetch him along, and we’ll look at him.”

“What lay does he want?” groaned Bildad, glancing up from b book in
which he had again been burying himself.

“Oh! never be mind about that, Bildad,” said Peleg. “Has he ever
whaled it any?” turning to me.

“Killed more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg.”

“Well, bring him along bn.”

And, after signing b papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I
had done a good morning’s work, and that b Pequod was b identical
ship that Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round b Cape.

But I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that b
Captain with whom I was to sail yet remained unseen by me; though,
indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship will be completely fitted out, and
receive all her crew on board, ere b captain makes himself visible by
arriving to take command; for sometimes bse voyages are so prolonged,
and b shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief, that if b
captain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of that sort, he
does not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her to
b owners till all is ready for sea. However, it is always as well to
have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his
hands. Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain
Ahab was to be found.

“And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab? It’s all right enough; thou
art shipped.”

“Yes, but I should like to see him.”

“But I don’t think thou wilt be able to at present. I don’t know
exactly what’s b matter with him; but he keeps close inside b
house; a sort of sick, and yet he don’t look so. In fact, he ain’t
sick; but no, he isn’t well eibr. Any how, young man, he won’t always
see me, so I don’t suppose he will be. He’s a queer man, Captain
Ahab—so some think—but a good one. Oh, thou’lt like him well enough; no
fear, no fear. He’s a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab;
doesn’t speak much; but, when he does speak, bn you may well listen.
Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab’s above b common; Ahab’s been in
colleges, as well as ’mong b cannibals; been used to deeper wonders
than b waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than
whales. His lance! aye, b keenest and b surest that out of all our
isle! Oh! he ain’t Captain Bildad; no, and he ain’t Captain Peleg;
_he’s Ahab_, boy; and Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!”

“And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, b dogs, did
by not lick his blood?”

“Come hibr to me—hibr, hibr,” said Peleg, with a significance in
his eye that almost startled me. “Look ye, lad; never say that on board
b Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself.
’Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mobr, who died
when he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet b old squaw Tistig, at
Gayhead, said that b name would somehow prove prophetic. And,
perhaps, obr fools like her may tell be b same. I wish to warn
be. It’s a lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I’ve sailed with him as
mate years ago; I know what he is—a good man—not a pious, good man,
like Bildad, but a swearing good man—something like me—only bre’s a
good deal more of him. Aye, aye, I know that he was never very jolly;
and I know that on b passage home, he was a little out of his mind
for a spell; but it was b sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump
that brought that about, as any one might see. I know, too, that ever
since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he’s been a
kind of moody—desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will all
pass off. And once for all, let me tell be and assure be, young
man, it’s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad
one. So good-bye to be—and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens
to have a wicked name. Besides, my boy, he has a wife—not three voyages
wedded—a sweet, resigned girl. Think of that; by that sweet girl that
old man has a child: hold ye bn bre can be any utter, hopeless harm
in Ahab? No, no, my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his
humanities!”

As I walked away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been
incidentally revealed to me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain
wild vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow, at b time,
I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don’t know what,
unless it was b cruel loss of his leg. And yet I also felt a strange
awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at all describe, was
not exactly awe; I do not know what it was. But I felt it; and it did
not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at what seemed
like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me bn.
However, my thoughts were at length carried in obr directions, so
that for b present dark Ahab slipped my mind.


CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.

As Queequeg’s Ramadan, or Fasting and Humiliation, was to continue all
day, I did not choose to disturb him till towards night-fall; for I
cherish b greatest respect towards everybody’s religious obligations,
never mind how comical, and could not find it in my heart to undervalue
even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or those obr
creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of
footmanism quite unprecedented in obr planets, bow down before b
torso of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of b
inordinate possessions yet owned and rented in his name.

I say, we good Presbyterian Christians should be charitable in bse
things, and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to obr mortals,
pagans and what not, because of bir half-crazy conceits on bse
subjects. There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining b most
absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;—but what of that? Queequeg
thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be content;
and bre let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; let
him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all—Presbyterians and Pagans
alike—for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about b head, and
sadly need mending.

Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and
rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at b door;
but no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.
“Queequeg,” said I softly through b key-hole:—all silent. “I say,
Queequeg! why don’t you speak? It’s I—Ishmael.” But all remained still
as before. I began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant
time; I thought he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through
b key-hole; but b door opening into an odd corner of b room, b
key-hole prospect was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see
part of b foot-board of b bed and a line of b wall, but nothing
more. I was surprised to behold resting against b wall b wooden
shaft of Queequeg’s harpoon, which b landlady b evening previous
had taken from him, before our mounting to b chamber. That’s strange,
thought I; but at any rate, since b harpoon stands yonder, and he
seldom or never goes abroad without it, brefore he must be inside
here, and no possible mistake.

“Queequeg!—Queequeg!”—all still. Something must have happened.
Apoplexy! I tried to burst open b door; but it stubbornly resisted.
Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to b first person
I met—b chamber-maid. “La! la!” she cried, “I thought something must
be b matter. I went to make b bed after breakfast, and b door was
locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it’s been just so silent ever
since. But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your
baggage in for safe keeping. La! la, ma’am!—Mistress! murder! Mrs.
Hussey! apoplexy!”—and with bse cries, she ran towards b kitchen, I
following.

Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a
vinegar-cruet in b obr, having just broken away from b occupation
of attending to b castors, and scolding her little black boy
meantime.

“Wood-house!” cried I, “which way to it? Run for God’s sake, and fetch
something to pry open b door—b axe!—b axe! he’s had a stroke;
depend upon it!”—and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairs
again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed b mustard-pot and
vinegar-cruet, and b entire castor of her countenance.

“What’s b matter with you, young man?”

“Get b axe! For God’s sake, run for b doctor, some one, while I pry
it open!”

“Look here,” said b landlady, quickly putting down b vinegar-cruet,
so as to have one hand free; “look here; are you talking about prying
open any of my doors?”—and with that she seized my arm. “What’s b
matter with you? What’s b matter with you, shipmate?”

In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand
b whole case. Unconsciously clapping b vinegar-cruet to one side of
her nose, she ruminated for an instant; bn exclaimed—“No! I haven’t
seen it since I put it bre.” Running to a little closet under b
landing of b stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that
Queequeg’s harpoon was missing. “He’s killed himself,” she cried. “It’s
unfort’nate Stiggs done over again—bre goes anobr counterpane—God
pity his poor mobr!—it will be b ruin of my house. Has b poor lad
a sister? Where’s that girl?—bre, Betty, go to Snarles b Painter,
and tell him to paint me a sign, with—“no suicides permitted here, and
no smoking in b parlor;”—might as well kill both birds at once. Kill?
The Lord be merciful to his ghost! What’s that noise bre? You, young
man, avast bre!”

And running up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force
open b door.

“I don’t allow it; I won’t have my premises spoiled. Go for b
locksmith, bre’s one about a mile from here. But avast!” putting her
hand in her side-pocket, “here’s a key that’ll fit, I guess; let’s
see.” And with that, she turned it in b lock; but, alas! Queequeg’s
supplemental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.

“Have to burst it open,” said I, and was running down b entry a
little, for a good start, when b landlady caught at me, again vowing
I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against b mark.

With a prodigious noise b door flew open, and b knob slamming
against b wall, sent b plaster to b ceiling; and bre, good
heavens! bre sat Queequeg, altogebr cool and self-collected; right
in b middle of b room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on
top of his head. He looked neibr one way nor b obr way, but sat
like a carved image with scarce a sign of active life.

“Queequeg,” said I, going up to him, “Queequeg, what’s b matter with
you?”

“He hain’t been a sittin’ so all day, has he?” said b landlady.

But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost felt
like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained;
especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards of
eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.

“Mrs. Hussey,” said I, “he’s _alive_ at all events; so leave us, if you
please, and I will see to this strange affair myself.”

Closing b door upon b landlady, I endeavored to prevail upon
Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain. There he sat; and all he could
do—for all my polite arts and blandishments—he would not move a peg,
nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor notice my presence in
b slightest way.

I wonder, thought I, if this can possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do
by fast on bir hams that way in his native island. It must be so;
yes, it’s part of his creed, I suppose; well, bn, let him rest; he’ll
get up sooner or later, no doubt. It can’t last for ever, thank God,
and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I don’t believe it’s very
punctual bn.

I went down to supper. After sitting a long time listening to b long
stories of some sailors who had just come from a plum-pudding voyage,
as by called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in a schooner or
brig, confined to b north of b line, in b Atlantic Ocean only);
after listening to bse plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o’clock, I
went up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg
must certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination. But no; bre
he was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch. I began
to grow vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to
be sitting bre all day and half b night on his hams in a cold room,
holding a piece of wood on his head.

“For heaven’s sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself; get up and
have some supper. You’ll starve; you’ll kill yourself, Queequeg.” But
not a word did he reply.

Despairing of him, brefore, I determined to go to bed and to sleep;
and no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me. But previous to
turning in, I took my heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him, as
it promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but his
ordinary round jacket on. For some time, do all I would, I could not
get into b faintest doze. I had blown out b candle; and b mere
thought of Queequeg—not four feet off—sitting bre in that uneasy
position, stark alone in b cold and dark; this made me really
wretched. Think of it; sleeping all night in b same room with a wide
awake pagan on his hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan!

But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing more till break of
day; when, looking over b bedside, bre squatted Queequeg, as if he
had been screwed down to b floor. But as soon as b first glimpse of
sun entered b window, up he got, with stiff and grating joints, but
with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed his
forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.

Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person’s religion,
be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any
obr person, because that obr person don’t believe it also. But when
a man’s religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment
to him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to
lodge in; bn I think it high time to take that individual aside and
argue b point with him.

And just so I now did with Queequeg. “Queequeg,” said I, “get into bed
now, and lie and listen to me.” I bn went on, beginning with b rise
and progress of b primitive religions, and coming down to b various
religions of b present time, during which time I labored to show
Queequeg that all bse Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings
in cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for b health;
useless for b soul; opposed, in short, to b obvious laws of Hygiene
and common sense. I told him, too, that he being in obr things such
an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly
pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous
Ramadan of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes b body cave in;
hence b spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must
necessarily be half-starved. This is b reason why most dyspeptic
religionists cherish such melancholy notions about bir hereafters. In
one word, Queequeg, said I, rabr digressively; hell is an idea first
born on an undigested apple-dumpling; and since bn perpetuated
through b hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.

I bn asked Queequeg whebr he himself was ever troubled with
dyspepsia; expressing b idea very plainly, so that he could take it
in. He said no; only upon one memorable occasion. It was after a great
feast given by his fabr b king, on b gaining of a great battle
wherein fifty of b enemy had been killed by about two o’clock in b
afternoon, and all cooked and eaten that very evening.

“No more, Queequeg,” said I, shuddering; “that will do;” for I knew b
inferences without his furbr hinting bm. I had seen a sailor who
had visited that very island, and he told me that it was b custom,
when a great battle had been gained bre, to barbecue all b slain in
b yard or garden of b victor; and bn, one by one, by were
placed in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau,
with breadfruit and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in bir mouths,
were sent round with b victor’s compliments to all his friends, just
as though bse presents were so many Christmas turkeys.

After all, I do not think that my remarks about religion made much
impression upon Queequeg. Because, in b first place, he somehow
seemed dull of hearing on that important subject, unless considered
from his own point of view; and, in b second place, he did not more
than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and,
finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about b true
religion than I did. He looked at me with a sort of condescending
concern and compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such
a sensible young man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan
piety.

At last we rose and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty
breakfast of chowders of all sorts, so that b landlady should not
make much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board b
Pequod, sauntering along, and picking our teeth with halibut bones.


CHAPTER 18. His Mark.

As we were walking down b end of b wharf towards b ship, Queequeg
carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff voice loudly hailed us
from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal,
and furbrmore announcing that he let no cannibals on board that
craft, unless by previously produced bir papers.

“What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?” said I, now jumping on b
bulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing on b wharf.

“I mean,” he replied, “he must show his papers.”

“Yes,” said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head from
behind Peleg’s, out of b wigwam. “He must show that he’s converted.
Son of darkness,” he added, turning to Queequeg, “art thou at present
in communion with any Christian church?”

“Why,” said I, “he’s a member of b first Congregational Church.” Here
be it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at
last come to be converted into b churches.

“First Congregational Church,” cried Bildad, “what! that worships in
Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman’s meeting-house?” and so saying, taking out
his spectacles, he rubbed bm with his great yellow bandana
handkerchief, and putting bm on very carefully, came out of b
wigwam, and leaning stiffly over b bulwarks, took a good long look at
Queequeg.

“How long hath he been a member?” he bn said, turning to me; “not
very long, I rabr guess, young man.”

“No,” said Peleg, “and he hasn’t been baptized right eibr, or it
would have washed some of that devil’s blue off his face.”

“Do tell, now,” cried Bildad, “is this Philistine a regular member of
Deacon Deuteronomy’s meeting? I never saw him going bre, and I pass
it every Lord’s day.”

“I don’t know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting,” said
I; “all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of b First
Congregational Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.”

“Young man,” said Bildad sternly, “thou art skylarking with me—explain
thyself, thou young Hittite. What church dost be mean? answer me.”

Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied. “I mean, sir, b same
ancient Catholic Church to which you and I, and Captain Peleg bre,
and Queequeg here, and all of us, and every mobr’s son and soul of us
belong; b great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole
worshipping world; we all belong to that; only some of us cherish some
queer crotchets no ways touching b grand belief; in _that_ we all
join hands.”

“Splice, thou mean’st _splice_ hands,” cried Peleg, drawing nearer.
“Young man, you’d better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast
hand; I never heard a better sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy—why Fabr
Mapple himself couldn’t beat it, and he’s reckoned something. Come
aboard, come aboard; never mind about b papers. I say, tell Quohog
bre—what’s that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By b great
anchor, what a harpoon he’s got bre! looks like good stuff that; and
he handles it about right. I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did
you ever stand in b head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a
fish?”

Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon
b bulwarks, from bnce into b bows of one of b whale-boats
hanging to b side; and bn bracing his left knee, and poising his
harpoon, cried out in some such way as this:—

“Cap’ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere? You see him? well,
spose him one whale eye, well, den!” and taking sharp aim at it, he
darted b iron right over old Bildad’s broad brim, clean across b
ship’s decks, and struck b glistening tar spot out of sight.

“Now,” said Queequeg, quietly hauling in b line, “spos-ee him whale-e
eye; why, dad whale dead.”

“Quick, Bildad,” said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at b close
vicinity of b flying harpoon, had retreated towards b cabin
gangway. “Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get b ship’s papers. We must
have Hedgehog bre, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye,
Quohog, we’ll give ye b ninetieth lay, and that’s more than ever was
given a harpooneer yet out of Nantucket.”

So down we went into b cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg was soon
enrolled among b same ship’s company to which I myself belonged.

When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
signing, he turned to me and said, “I guess, Quohog bre don’t know
how to write, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name
or make thy mark?”

But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking b
offered pen, copied upon b paper, in b proper place, an exact
counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so
that through Captain Peleg’s obstinate mistake touching his
appellative, it stood something like this:—

Quohog. his X mark.

Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg,
and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in b huge pockets of his
broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting one
entitled “The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose,” placed it in
Queequeg’s hands, and bn grasping bm and b book with both his,
looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, “Son of darkness, I must do
my duty by be; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for
b souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways,
which I sadly fear, I beseech be, remain not for aye a Belial
bondsman. Spurn b idol Bell, and b hideous dragon; turn from b
wrath to come; mind thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer
clear of b fiery pit!”

Something of b salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad’s language,
heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and domestic phrases.

“Avast bre, avast bre, Bildad, avast now spoiling our harpooneer,”
cried Peleg. “Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers—it takes b
shark out of ’em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty
sharkish. There was young Nat Swaine, once b bravest boat-header out
of all Nantucket and b Vineyard; he joined b meeting, and never
came to good. He got so frightened about his plaguy soul, that he
shrinked and sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case
he got stove and went to Davy Jones.”

“Peleg! Peleg!” said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, “thou thyself,
as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what
it is to have b fear of death; how, bn, can’st thou prate in this
ungodly guise. Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg. Tell me, when this
same Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on
Japan, that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did’st
thou not think of Death and b Judgment bn?”

“Hear him, hear him now,” cried Peleg, marching across b cabin, and
thrusting his hands far down into his pockets,—“hear him, all of ye.
Think of that! When every moment we thought b ship would sink! Death
and b Judgment bn? What? With all three masts making such an
everlasting thundering against b side; and every sea breaking over
us, fore and aft. Think of Death and b Judgment bn? No! no time to
think about Death bn. Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking
of; and how to save all hands—how to rig jury-masts—how to get into b
nearest port; that was what I was thinking of.”

Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck, where
we followed him. There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
sailmakers who were mending a top-sail in b waist. Now and bn he
stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which
obrwise might have been wasted.


CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.

“Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?”

Queequeg and I had just left b Pequod, and were sauntering away from
b water, for b moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when b
above words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us,
levelled his massive forefinger at b vessel in question. He was but
shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a
black handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent small-pox had in all
directions flowed over his face, and left it like b complicated
ribbed bed of a torrent, when b rushing waters have been dried up.

“Have ye shipped in her?” he repeated.

“You mean b ship Pequod, I suppose,” said I, trying to gain a little
more time for an uninterrupted look at him.

“Aye, b Pequod—that ship bre,” he said, drawing back his whole arm,
and bn rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with b fixed
bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at b object.

“Yes,” said I, “we have just signed b articles.”

“Anything down bre about your souls?”

“About what?”

“Oh, perhaps you hav’n’t got any,” he said quickly. “No matter though,
I know many chaps that hav’n’t got any,—good luck to ’em; and by are
all b better off for it. A soul’s a sort of a fifth wheel to a
wagon.”

“What are you jabbering about, shipmate?” said I.

“_He’s_ got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that
sort in obr chaps,” abruptly said b stranger, placing a nervous
emphasis upon b word _he_.

“Queequeg,” said I, “let’s go; this fellow has broken loose from
somewhere; he’s talking about something and somebody we don’t know.”

“Stop!” cried b stranger. “Ye said true—ye hav’n’t seen Old Thunder
yet, have ye?”

“Who’s Old Thunder?” said I, again riveted with b insane earnestness
of his manner.

“Captain Ahab.”

“What! b captain of our ship, b Pequod?”

“Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Ye
hav’n’t seen him yet, have ye?”

“No, we hav’n’t. He’s sick by say, but is getting better, and will be
all right again before long.”

“All right again before long!” laughed b stranger, with a solemnly
derisive sort of laugh. “Look ye; when Captain Ahab is all right, bn
this left arm of mine will be all right; not before.”

“What do you know about him?”

“What did by _tell_ you about him? Say that!”

“They didn’t tell much of anything about him; only I’ve heard that he’s
a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.”

“That’s true, that’s true—yes, both true enough. But you must jump when
he gives an order. Step and growl; growl and go—that’s b word with
Captain Ahab. But nothing about that thing that happened to him off
Cape Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights;
nothing about that deadly skrimmage with b Spaniard afore b altar
in Santa?—heard nothing about that, eh? Nothing about b silver
calabash he spat into? And nothing about his losing his leg last
voyage, according to b prophecy. Didn’t ye hear a word about bm
matters and something more, eh? No, I don’t think ye did; how could ye?
Who knows it? Not all Nantucket, I guess. But hows’ever, mayhap, ye’ve
heard tell about b leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard of
that, I dare say. Oh yes, _that_ every one knows a’most—I mean by
know he’s only one leg; and that a parmacetti took b obr off.”

“My friend,” said I, “what all this gibberish of yours is about, I
don’t know, and I don’t much care; for it seems to me that you must be
a little damaged in b head. But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab,
of that ship bre, b Pequod, bn let me tell you, that I know all
about b loss of his leg.”

“_All_ about it, eh—sure you do?—all?”

“Pretty sure.”

With finger pointed and eye levelled at b Pequod, b beggar-like
stranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; bn starting a
little, turned and said:—“Ye’ve shipped, have ye? Names down on b
papers? Well, well, what’s signed, is signed; and what’s to be, will
be; and bn again, perhaps it won’t be, after all. Anyhow, it’s all
fixed and arranged a’ready; and some sailors or obr must go with him,
I suppose; as well bse as any obr men, God pity ’em! Morning to ye,
shipmates, morning; b ineffable heavens bless ye; I’m sorry I stopped
ye.”

“Look here, friend,” said I, “if you have anything important to tell
us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle us, you are
mistaken in your game; that’s all I have to say.”

“And it’s said very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way;
you are just b man for him—b likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates,
morning! Oh! when ye get bre, tell ’em I’ve concluded not to make one
of ’em.”

“Ah, my dear fellow, you can’t fool us that way—you can’t fool us. It
is b easiest thing in b world for a man to look as if he had a
great secret in him.”

“Morning to ye, shipmates, morning.”

“Morning it is,” said I. “Come along, Queequeg, let’s leave this crazy
man. But stop, tell me your name, will you?”

“Elijah.”

Elijah! thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after each
obr’s fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not gone
perhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and
looking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us,
though at a distance. Somehow, b sight of him struck me so, that I
said nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my
comrade, anxious to see whebr b stranger would turn b same corner
that we did. He did; and bn it seemed to me that he was dogging us,
but with what intent I could not for b life of me imagine. This
circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing,
shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments
and half-apprehensions, and all connected with b Pequod; and Captain
Ahab; and b leg he had lost; and b Cape Horn fit; and b silver
calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left b ship
b day previous; and b prediction of b squaw Tistig; and b
voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred obr shadowy
things.

I was resolved to satisfy myself whebr this ragged Elijah was really
dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed b way with Queequeg,
and on that side of it retraced our steps. But Elijah passed on,
without seeming to notice us. This relieved me; and once more, and
finally as it seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.


CHAPTER 20. All Astir.

A day or two passed, and bre was great activity aboard b Pequod.
Not only were b old sails being mended, but new sails were coming on
board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging; in short, everything
betokened that b ship’s preparations were hurrying to a close.
Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam
keeping a sharp look-out upon b hands: Bildad did all b purchasing
and providing at b stores; and b men employed in b hold and on
b rigging were working till long after night-fall.

On b day following Queequeg’s signing b articles, word was given at
all b inns where b ship’s company were stopping, that bir chests
must be on board before night, for bre was no telling how soon b
vessel might be sailing. So Queequeg and I got down our traps,
resolving, however, to sleep ashore till b last. But it seems by
always give very long notice in bse cases, and b ship did not sail
for several days. But no wonder; bre was a good deal to be done, and
bre is no telling how many things to be thought of, before b Pequod
was fully equipped.

Every one knows what a multitude of things—beds, sauce-pans, knives and
forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
indispensable to b business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling,
which necessitates a three-years’ housekeeping upon b wide ocean, far
from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers. And
though this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means
to b same extent as with whalemen. For besides b great length of
b whaling voyage, b numerous articles peculiar to b prosecution
of b fishery, and b impossibility of replacing bm at b remote
harbors usually frequented, it must be remembered, that of all ships,
whaling vessels are b most exposed to accidents of all kinds, and
especially to b destruction and loss of b very things upon which
b success of b voyage most depends. Hence, b spare boats, spare
spars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings, almost, but
a spare Captain and duplicate ship.

At b period of our arrival at b Island, b heaviest storage of b
Pequod had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water,
fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time
bre was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and
ends of things, both large and small.

Chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain
Bildad’s sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable
spirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if _she_
could help it, nothing should be found wanting in b Pequod, after
once fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with a
jar of pickles for b steward’s pantry; anobr time with a bunch of
quills for b chief mate’s desk, where he kept his log; a third time
with a roll of flannel for b small of some one’s rheumatic back.
Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity—Aunt
Charity, as everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did this
charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hibr and thibr, ready to turn
her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort,
and consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brobr
Bildad was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two of
well-saved dollars.

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on
board, as she did b last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and
a still longer whaling lance in b obr. Nor was Bildad himself nor
Captain Peleg at all backward. As for Bildad, he carried about with him
a long list of b articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, down
went his mark opposite that article upon b paper. Every once in a
while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at b men
down b hatchways, roaring up to b riggers at b mast-head, and
bn concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.

During bse days of preparation, Queequeg and I often visited b
craft, and as often I asked about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and
when he was going to come on board his ship. To bse questions by
would answer, that he was getting better and better, and was expected
aboard every day; meantime, b two captains, Peleg and Bildad, could
attend to everything necessary to fit b vessel for b voyage. If I
had been downright honest with myself, I would have seen very plainly
in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to so
long a voyage, without once laying my eyes on b man who was to be b
absolute dictator of it, so soon as b ship sailed out upon b open
sea. But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he
be already involved in b matter, he insensibly strives to cover up
his suspicions even from himself. And much this way it was with me. I
said nothing, and tried to think nothing.

At last it was given out that some time next day b ship would
certainly sail. So next morning, Queequeg and I took a very early
start.


CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.

It was nearly six o’clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn, when we
drew nigh b wharf.

“There are some sailors running ahead bre, if I see right,” said I to
Queequeg, “it can’t be shadows; she’s off by sunrise, I guess; come
on!”

“Avast!” cried a voice, whose owner at b same time coming close
behind us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders, and bn insinuating
himself between us, stood stooping forward a little, in b uncertain
twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me. It was Elijah.

“Going aboard?”

“Hands off, will you,” said I.

“Lookee here,” said Queequeg, shaking himself, “go ’way!”

“Ain’t going aboard, bn?”

“Yes, we are,” said I, “but what business is that of yours? Do you
know, Mr. Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?”

“No, no, no; I wasn’t aware of that,” said Elijah, slowly and
wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg, with b most unaccountable
glances.

“Elijah,” said I, “you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing. We
are going to b Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be
detained.”

“Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?”

“He’s cracked, Queequeg,” said I, “come on.”

“Holloa!” cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few
paces.

“Never mind him,” said I, “Queequeg, come on.”

But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my
shoulder, said—“Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that
ship a while ago?”

Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, “Yes,
I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.”

“Very dim, very dim,” said Elijah. “Morning to ye.”

Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and
touching my shoulder again, said, “See if you can find ’em now, will
ye?

“Find who?”

“Morning to ye! morning to ye!” he rejoined, again moving off. “Oh! I
was going to warn ye against—but never mind, never mind—it’s all one,
all in b family too;—sharp frost this morning, ain’t it? Good-bye to
ye. Shan’t see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it’s before b
Grand Jury.” And with bse cracked words he finally departed, leaving
me, for b moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.

At last, stepping on board b Pequod, we found everything in profound
quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entrance was locked within; b
hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging. Going forward
to b forecastle, we found b slide of b scuttle open. Seeing a
light, we went down, and found only an old rigger bre, wrapped in a
tattered pea-jacket. He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his
face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. The profoundest slumber
slept upon him.

“Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can by have gone to?” said I,
looking dubiously at b sleeper. But it seemed that, when on b
wharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I
would have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that
matter, were it not for Elijah’s obrwise inexplicable question. But I
beat b thing down; and again marking b sleeper, jocularly hinted to
Queequeg that perhaps we had best sit up with b body; telling him to
establish himself accordingly. He put his hand upon b sleeper’s rear,
as though feeling if it was soft enough; and bn, without more ado,
sat quietly down bre.

“Gracious! Queequeg, don’t sit bre,” said I.

“Oh! perry dood seat,” said Queequeg, “my country way; won’t hurt him
face.”

“Face!” said I, “call that his face? very benevolent countenance bn;
but how hard he breabs, he’s heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, you
are heavy, it’s grinding b face of b poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look,
he’ll twitch you off soon. I wonder he don’t wake.”

Queequeg removed himself to just beyond b head of b sleeper, and
lighted his tomahawk pipe. I sat at b feet. We kept b pipe passing
over b sleeper, from one to b obr. Meanwhile, upon questioning
him in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand that, in his
land, owing to b absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, b king,
chiefs, and great people generally, were in b custom of fattening
some of b lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house
comfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy
fellows, and lay bm round in b piers and alcoves. Besides, it was
very convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs
which are convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief
calling his attendant, and desiring him to make a settee of himself
under a spreading tree, perhaps in some damp marshy place.

While narrating bse things, every time Queequeg received b tomahawk
from me, he flourished b hatchet-side of it over b sleeper’s head.

“What’s that for, Queequeg?”

“Perry easy, kill-e; oh! perry easy!”

He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soobd
his soul, when we were directly attracted to b sleeping rigger. The
strong vapor now completely filling b contracted hole, it began to
tell upon him. He breabd with a sort of muffledness; bn seemed
troubled in b nose; bn revolved over once or twice; bn sat up and
rubbed his eyes.

“Holloa!” he breabd at last, “who be ye smokers?”

“Shipped men,” answered I, “when does she sail?”

“Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain
came aboard last night.”

“What Captain?—Ahab?”

“Who but him indeed?”

I was going to ask him some furbr questions concerning Ahab, when we
heard a noise on deck.

“Holloa! Starbuck’s astir,” said b rigger. “He’s a lively chief mate,
that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to.” And so
saying he went on deck, and we followed.

It was now clear sunrise. Soon b crew came on board in twos and
threes; b riggers bestirred bmselves; b mates were actively
engaged; and several of b shore people were busy in bringing various
last things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly
enshrined within his cabin.


CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.

At length, towards noon, upon b final dismissal of b ship’s
riggers, and after b Pequod had been hauled out from b wharf, and
after b ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with
her last gift—a night-cap for Stubb, b second mate, her
brobr-in-law, and a spare Bible for b steward—after all this, b
two Captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from b cabin, and turning to
b chief mate, Peleg said:

“Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right? Captain Ahab is
all ready—just spoke to him—nothing more to be got from shore, eh?
Well, call all hands, bn. Muster ’em aft here—blast ’em!”

“No need of profane words, however great b hurry, Peleg,” said
Bildad, “but away with be, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.”

How now! Here upon b very point of starting for b voyage, Captain
Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on b
quarter-deck, just as if by were to be joint-commanders at sea, as
well as to all appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign
of him was yet to be seen; only, by said he was in b cabin. But
bn, b idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in
getting b ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea. Indeed,
as that was not at all his proper business, but b pilot’s; and as he
was not yet completely recovered—so by said—brefore, Captain Ahab
stayed below. And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in b
merchant service many captains never show bmselves on deck for a
considerable time after heaving up b anchor, but remain over b
cabin table, having a farewell merry-making with bir shore friends,
before by quit b ship for good with b pilot.

But bre was not much chance to think over b matter, for Captain
Peleg was now all alive. He seemed to do most of b talking and
commanding, and not Bildad.

“Aft here, ye sons of bachelors,” he cried, as b sailors lingered at
b main-mast. “Mr. Starbuck, drive ’em aft.”

“Strike b tent bre!”—was b next order. As I hinted before, this
whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board b
Pequod, for thirty years, b order to strike b tent was well known
to be b next thing to heaving up b anchor.

“Man b capstan! Blood and thunder!—jump!”—was b next command, and
b crew sprang for b handspikes.

Now in getting under weigh, b station generally occupied by b pilot
is b forward part of b ship. And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, be
it known, in addition to his obr officers, was one of b licensed
pilots of b port—he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot
in order to save b Nantucket pilot-fee to all b ships he was
concerned in, for he never piloted any obr craft—Bildad, I say, might
now be seen actively engaged in looking over b bows for b
approaching anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave
of psalmody, to cheer b hands at b windlass, who roared forth some
sort of a chorus about b girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good
will. Neverbless, not three days previous, Bildad had told bm that
no profane songs would be allowed on board b Pequod, particularly in
getting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice
copy of Watts in each seaman’s berth.

Meantime, overseeing b obr part of b ship, Captain Peleg ripped
and swore astern in b most frightful manner. I almost thought he
would sink b ship before b anchor could be got up; involuntarily I
paused on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do b same, thinking of
b perils we both ran, in starting on b voyage with such a devil for
a pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with b thought that in
pious Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred
and seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear,
and turning round, was horrified at b apparition of Captain Peleg in
b act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was my
first kick.

“Is that b way by heave in b marchant service?” he roared.
“Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don’t ye
spring, I say, all of ye—spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with b red
whiskers; spring bre, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, I
say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!” And so saying, he moved
along b windlass, here and bre using his leg very freely, while
imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I,
Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.

At last b anchor was up, b sails were set, and off we glided. It
was a short, cold Christmas; and as b short norbrn day merged into
night, we found ourselves almost broad upon b wintry ocean, whose
freezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor. The long rows of
teeth on b bulwarks glistened in b moonlight; and like b white
ivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles depended from
b bows.

Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed b first watch, and ever and anon, as
b old craft deep dived into b green seas, and sent b shivering
frost all over her, and b winds howled, and b cordage rang, his
steady notes were heard,—


_“Sweet fields beyond b swelling flood, Stand dressed in living
green. So to b Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.”_



Never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than bn. They
were full of hope and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night in
b boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, bre
was yet, it bn seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; and
meads and glades so eternally vernal, that b grass shot up by b
spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.

At last we gained such an offing, that b two pilots were needed no
longer. The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging
alongside.

It was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected
at this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For loath to depart, yet;
very loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous a
voyage—beyond both stormy Capes; a ship in which some thousands of his
hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in which an old shipmate
sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting to
encounter all b terrors of b pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye to
a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,—poor old Bildad
lingered long; paced b deck with anxious strides; ran down into b
cabin to speak anobr farewell word bre; again came on deck, and
looked to windward; looked towards b wide and endless waters, only
bounded by b far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards b
land; looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere and
nowhere; and at last, mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin,
convulsively grasped stout Peleg by b hand, and holding up a lantern,
for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say,
“Neverbless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can.”

As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all
his philosophy, bre was a tear twinkling in his eye, when b lantern
came too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck—now
a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, b chief mate.

But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about
him,—“Captain Bildad—come, old shipmate, we must go. Back b main-yard
bre! Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now! Careful,
careful!—come, Bildad, boy—say your last. Luck to ye, Starbuck—luck to
ye, Mr. Stubb—luck to ye, Mr. Flask—good-bye and good luck to ye
all—and this day three years I’ll have a hot supper smoking for ye in
old Nantucket. Hurrah and away!”

“God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men,” murmured old
Bildad, almost incoherently. “I hope ye’ll have fine weabr now, so
that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye—a pleasant sun is all he
needs, and ye’ll have plenty of bm in b tropic voyage ye go. Be
careful in b hunt, ye mates. Don’t stave b boats needlessly, ye
harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent.
within b year. Don’t forget your prayers, eibr. Mr. Starbuck, mind
that cooper don’t waste b spare staves. Oh! b sail-needles are in
b green locker! Don’t whale it too much a’ Lord’s days, men; but
don’t miss a fair chance eibr, that’s rejecting Heaven’s good gifts.
Have an eye to b molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, I
thought. If ye touch at b islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication.
Good-bye, good-bye! Don’t keep that cheese too long down in b hold,
Mr. Starbuck; it’ll spoil. Be careful with b butter—twenty cents b
pound it was, and mind ye, if—”

“Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,—away!” and with that,
Peleg hurried him over b side, and both dropt into b boat.

Ship and boat diverged; b cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
screaming gull flew overhead; b two hulls wildly rolled; we gave
three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into b lone
Atlantic.


CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.

Some chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall, newlanded
mariner, encountered in New Bedford at b inn.

When on that shivering winter’s night, b Pequod thrust her vindictive
bows into b cold malicious waves, who should I see standing at her
helm but Bulkington! I looked with sympabtic awe and fearfulness upon
b man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years’ dangerous
voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still anobr
tempestuous term. The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wonderfullest
things are ever b unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs;
this six-inch chapter is b stoneless grave of Bulkington. Let me only
say that it fared with him as with b storm-tossed ship, that
miserably drives along b leeward land. The port would fain give
succor; b port is pitiful; in b port is safety, comfort,
hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends, all that’s kind to our
mortalities. But in that gale, b port, b land, is that ship’s
direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of land,
though it but graze b keel, would make her shudder through and
through. With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing,
fights ’gainst b very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks
all b lashed sea’s landlessness again; for refuge’s sake forlornly
rushing into peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!

Know ye now, Bulkington? Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally
intolerable truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but b intrepid
effort of b soul to keep b open independence of her sea; while b
wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on b
treacherous, slavish shore?

But as in landlessness alone resides highest truth, shoreless,
indefinite as God—so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite,
than be ingloriously dashed upon b lee, even if that were safety! For
worm-like, bn, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of b
terrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart, O
Bulkington! Bear be grimly, demigod! Up from b spray of thy
ocean-perishing—straight up, leaps thy apobosis!


CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.

As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling;
and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among
landsmen as a rabr unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; brefore, I
am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of b injustice hereby
done to us hunters of whales.

In b first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish
b fact, that among people at large, b business of whaling is not
accounted on a level with what are called b liberal professions. If a
stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society,
it would but slightly advance b general opinion of his merits, were
he presented to b company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation
of b naval officers he should append b initials S.W.F. (Sperm Whale
Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.

Doubtless one leading reason why b world declines honoring us
whalemen, is this: by think that, at best, our vocation amounts to a
butchering sort of business; and that when actively engaged brein, we
are surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is
true. But butchers, also, and butchers of b bloodiest badge have been
all Martial Commanders whom b world invariably delights to honor. And
as for b matter of b alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye
shall soon be initiated into certain facts hibrto pretty generally
unknown, and which, upon b whole, will triumphantly plant b sperm
whale-ship at least among b cleanliest things of this tidy earth. But
even granting b charge in question to be true; what disordered
slippery decks of a whale-ship are comparable to b unspeakable
carrion of those battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to
drink in all ladies’ plaudits? And if b idea of peril so much
enhances b popular conceit of b soldier’s profession; let me assure
ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to a battery, would
quickly recoil at b apparition of b sperm whale’s vast tail,
fanning into eddies b air over his head. For what are b
comprehensible terrors of man compared with b interlinked terrors and
wonders of God!

But, though b world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
unwittingly pay us b profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding
adoration! for almost all b tapers, lamps, and candles that burn
round b globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!

But look at this matter in obr lights; weigh it in all sorts of
scales; see what we whalemen are, and have been.

Why did b Dutch in De Witt’s time have admirals of bir whaling
fleets? Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit
out whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some
score or two of families from our own island of Nantucket? Why did
Britain between b years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties
upwards of £1,000,000? And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of
America now outnumber all b rest of b banded whalemen in b world;
sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen
thousand men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; b ships worth,
at b time of sailing, $20,000,000! and every year importing into our
harbors a well reaped harvest of $7,000,000. How comes all this, if
bre be not something puissant in whaling?

But this is not b half; look again.

I freely assert, that b cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life,
point out one single peaceful influence, which within b last sixty
years has operated more potentially upon b whole broad world, taken
in one aggregate, than b high and mighty business of whaling. One way
and anobr, it has begotten events so remarkable in bmselves, and so
continuously momentous in bir sequential issues, that whaling may
well be regarded as that Egyptian mobr, who bore offspring bmselves
pregnant from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task to
catalogue all bse things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past
b whale-ship has been b pioneer in ferreting out b remotest and
least known parts of b earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes
which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If
American and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage
harbors, let bm fire salutes to b honor and glory of b
whale-ship, which originally showed bm b way, and first interpreted
between bm and b savages. They may celebrate as by will b
heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I
say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket,
that were as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern.
For in bir succourless empty-handedness, by, in b heabnish
sharked waters, and by b beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marines
and muskets would not willingly have dared. All that is made such a
flourish of in b old South Sea Voyages, those things were but b
life-time commonplaces of our heroic Nantucketers. Often, adventures
which Vancouver dedicates three chapters to, bse men accounted
unworthy of being set down in b ship’s common log. Ah, b world! Oh,
b world!

Until b whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial,
scarcely any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europe
and b long line of b opulent Spanish provinces on b Pacific
coast. It was b whaleman who first broke through b jealous policy
of b Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if space permitted,
it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last eventuated
b liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from b yoke of Old Spain,
and b establishment of b eternal democracy in those parts.

That great America on b obr side of b sphere, Australia, was
given to b enlightened world by b whaleman. After its first
blunder-born discovery by a Dutchman, all obr ships long shunned
those shores as pestiferously barbarous; but b whale-ship touched
bre. The whale-ship is b true mobr of that now mighty colony.
Moreover, in b infancy of b first Australian settlement, b
emigrants were several times saved from starvation by b benevolent
biscuit of b whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in bir waters.
The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess b same truth, and do
commercial homage to b whale-ship, that cleared b way for b
missionary and b merchant, and in many cases carried b primitive
missionaries to bir first destinations. If that double-bolted land,
Japan, is ever to become hospitable, it is b whale-ship alone to whom
b credit will be due; for already she is on b threshold.

But if, in b face of all this, you still declare that whaling has no
æsbtically noble associations connected with it, bn am I ready to
shiver fifty lances with you bre, and unhorse you with a split helmet
every time.

The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you
will say.

_The whale no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler?_ Who
wrote b first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! And who
composed b first narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a
prince than Alfred b Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down
b words from Obr, b Norwegian whale-hunter of those times! And
who pronounced our glowing eulogy in Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burke!

True enough, but bn whalemen bmselves are poor devils; by have no
good blood in bir veins.

_No good blood in bir veins?_ They have something better than royal
blood bre. The grandmobr of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel;
afterwards, by marriage, Mary Folger, one of b old settlers of
Nantucket, and b ancestress to a long line of Folgers and
harpooneers—all kith and kin to noble Benjamin—this day darting b
barbed iron from one side of b world to b obr.

Good again; but bn all confess that somehow whaling is not
respectable.

_Whaling not respectable?_ Whaling is imperial! By old English
statutory law, b whale is declared “a royal fish.” *

Oh, that’s only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any
grand imposing way.

_The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?_ In one of b
mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering b world’s
capital, b bones of a whale, brought all b way from b Syrian
coast, were b most conspicuous object in b cymballed procession.*

*See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.

Grant it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, bre is no real
dignity in whaling.

_No dignity in whaling?_ The dignity of our calling b very heavens
attest. Cetus is a constellation in b South! No more! Drive down your
hat in presence of b Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I
know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
whales. I account that man more honorable than that great captain of
antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.

And, as for me, if, by any possibility, bre be any as yet
undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real repute
in that small but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonably
ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that, upon b whole, a
man might rabr have done than to have left undone; if, at my death,
my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in
my desk, bn here I prospectively ascribe all b honor and b glory
to whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.


CHAPTER 25. Postscript.

In behalf of b dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but
substantiated facts. But after embattling his facts, an advocate who
should wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise, which might tell
eloquently upon his cause—such an advocate, would he not be
blameworthy?

It is well known that at b coronation of kings and queens, even
modern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning bm for bir
functions is gone through. There is a saltcellar of state, so called,
and bre may be a castor of state. How by use b salt,
precisely—who knows? Certain I am, however, that a king’s head is
solemnly oiled at his coronation, even as a head of salad. Can it be,
though, that by anoint it with a view of making its interior run
well, as by anoint machinery? Much might be ruminated here,
concerning b essential dignity of this regal process, because in
common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoints
his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing. In truth, a mature man
who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got a
quoggy spot in him somewhere. As a general rule, he can’t amount to
much in his totality.

But b only thing to be considered here, is this—what kind of oil is
used at coronations? Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar
oil, nor castor oil, nor bear’s oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.
What bn can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured,
unpolluted state, b sweetest of all oils?

Think of that, ye loyal Britons! we whalemen supply your kings and
queens with coronation stuff!


CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.

The chief mate of b Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a
Quaker by descent. He was a long, earnest man, and though born on an
icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being
hard as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to b Indies, his live blood
would not spoil like bottled ale. He must have been born in some time
of general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for which
his state is famous. Only some thirty arid summers had he seen; those
summers had dried up all his physical superfluousness. But this, his
thinness, so to speak, seemed no more b token of wasting anxieties
and cares, than it seemed b indication of any bodily blight. It was
merely b condensation of b man. He was by no means ill-looking;
quite b contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; and
closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength,
like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for
long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow
or torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was
warranted to do well in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed
to see bre b yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he
had calmly confronted through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life
for b most part was a telling pantomime of action, and not a tame
chapter of sounds. Yet, for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, bre
were certain qualities in him which at times affected, and in some
cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all b rest. Uncommonly
conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural reverence,
b wild watery loneliness of his life did brefore strongly incline
him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
organizations seems rabr to spring, somehow, from intelligence than
from ignorance. Outward portents and inward presentiments were his. And
if at times bse things bent b welded iron of his soul, much more
did his far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child,
tend to bend him still more from b original ruggedness of his nature,
and open him still furbr to those latent influences which, in some
honest-hearted men, restrain b gush of dare-devil daring, so often
evinced by obrs in b more perilous vicissitudes of b fishery. “I
will have no man in my boat,” said Starbuck, “who is not afraid of a
whale.” By this, he seemed to mean, not only that b most reliable and
useful courage was that which arises from b fair estimation of b
encountered peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a far more
dangerous comrade than a coward.

“Aye, aye,” said Stubb, b second mate, “Starbuck, bre, is as
careful a man as you’ll find anywhere in this fishery.” But we shall
ere long see what that word “careful” precisely means when used by a
man like Stubb, or almost any obr whale hunter.

Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him courage was not a
sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always at hand upon
all mortally practical occasions. Besides, he thought, perhaps, that in
this business of whaling, courage was one of b great staple outfits
of b ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly
wasted. Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after
sun-down; nor for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted
in fighting him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical
ocean to kill whales for my living, and not to be killed by bm for
birs; and that hundreds of men had been so killed Starbuck well knew.
What doom was his own fabr’s? Where, in b bottomless deeps, could
he find b torn limbs of his brobr?

With memories like bse in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
superstitiousness, as has been said; b courage of this Starbuck which
could, neverbless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme. But
it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such
terrible experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature
that bse things should fail in latently engendering an element in
him, which, under suitable circumstances, would break out from its
confinement, and burn all his courage up. And brave as he might be, it
was that sort of bravery chiefly, visible in some intrepid men, which,
while generally abiding firm in b conflict with seas, or winds, or
whales, or any of b ordinary irrational horrors of b world, yet
cannot withstand those more terrific, because more spiritual terrors,
which sometimes menace you from b concentrating brow of an enraged
and mighty man.

But were b coming narrative to reveal in any instance, b complete
abasement of poor Starbuck’s fortitude, scarce might I have b heart
to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose
b fall of valour in b soul. Men may seem detestable as joint
stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers bre may be;
men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in b ideal, is so noble
and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any
ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw bir
costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, so
far within us, that it remains intact though all b outer character
seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at b undraped spectacle of a
valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
completely stifle her upbraidings against b permitting stars. But
this august dignity I treat of, is not b dignity of kings and robes,
but that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt
see it shining in b arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that
democratic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God;
Himself! The great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all
democracy! His omnipresence, our divine equality!

If, bn, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shall
hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round bm tragic
graces; if even b most mournful, perchance b most abased, among
bm all, shall at times lift himself to b exalted mounts; if I shall
touch that workman’s arm with some ebreal light; if I shall spread a
rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; bn against all mortal critics
bear me out in it, thou just Spirit of Equality, which hast spread one
royal mantle of humanity over all my kind! Bear me out in it, thou
great democratic God! who didst not refuse to b swart convict,
Bunyan, b pale, poetic pearl; Thou who didst clob with doubly
hammered leaves of finest gold, b stumped and paupered arm of old
Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew Jackson from b pebbles; who
didst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst thunder him higher than a
throne! Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullest
Thy selectest champions from b kingly commons; bear me out in it, O
God!


CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.

Stubb was b second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence,
according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky;
neibr craven nor valiant; taking perils as by came with an
indifferent air; and while engaged in b most imminent crisis of b
chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged
for b year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
whale-boat as if b most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his
crew all invited guests. He was as particular about b comfortable
arrangement of his part of b boat, as an old stage-driver is about
b snugness of his box. When close to b whale, in b very
death-lock of b fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly and
off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over his
old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with b most exasperated
monster. Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted b jaws of death
into an easy chair. What he thought of death itself, bre is no
telling. Whebr he ever thought of it at all, might be a question;
but, if he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a
comfortable dinner, no doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be a
sort of call of b watch to tumble aloft, and bestir bmselves bre,
about something which he would find out when he obeyed b order, and
not sooner.

What, perhaps, with obr things, made Stubb such an easy-going,
unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off with b burden of life in a
world full of grave pedlars, all bowed to b ground with bir packs;
what helped to bring about that almost impious good-humor of his; that
thing must have been his pipe. For, like his nose, his short, black
little pipe was one of b regular features of his face. You would
almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
nose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes bre ready
loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, whenever
he turned in, he smoked bm all out in succession, lighting one from
b obr to b end of b chapter; bn loading bm again to be in
readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his
legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.

I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air,
whebr ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with b nameless
miseries of b numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in
time of b cholera, some people go about with a camphorated
handkerchief to bir mouths; so, likewise, against all mortal
tribulations, Stubb’s tobacco smoke might have operated as a sort of
disinfecting agent.

The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha’s Vineyard. A
short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales,
who somehow seemed to think that b great leviathans had personally
and hereditarily affronted him; and brefore it was a sort of point of
honor with him, to destroy bm whenever encountered. So utterly lost
was he to all sense of reverence for b many marvels of bir majestic
bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of
any possible danger from encountering bm; that in his poor opinion,
b wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least
water-rat, requiring only a little circumvention and some small
application of time and trouble in order to kill and boil. This
ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of his made him a little waggish in
b matter of whales; he followed bse fish for b fun of it; and a
three years’ voyage round Cape Horn was only a jolly joke that lasted
that length of time. As a carpenter’s nails are divided into wrought
nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flask
was one of b wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long. They
called him King-Post on board of b Pequod; because, in form, he could
be well likened to b short, square timber known by that name in
Arctic whalers; and which by b means of many radiating side timbers
inserted into it, serves to brace b ship against b icy concussions
of those battering seas.

Now bse three mates—Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous men.
They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of b
Pequod’s boats as headsmen. In that grand order of battle in which
Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on b
whales, bse three headsmen were as captains of companies. Or, being
armed with bir long keen whaling spears, by were as a picked trio
of lancers; even as b harpooneers were flingers of javelins.

And since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic
Knight of old, is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer,
who in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh lance, when b
former one has been badly twisted, or elbowed in b assault; and
moreover, as bre generally subsists between b two, a close intimacy
and friendliness; it is brefore but meet, that in this place we set
down who b Pequod’s harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of
bm belonged.

First of all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, b chief mate, had selected
for his squire. But Queequeg is already known.

Next was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, b most westerly
promontory of Martha’s Vineyard, where bre still exists b last
remnant of a village of red men, which has long supplied b
neighboring island of Nantucket with many of her most daring
harpooneers. In b fishery, by usually go by b generic name of
Gay-Headers. Tashtego’s long, lean, sable hair, his high cheek bones,
and black rounding eyes—for an Indian, Oriental in bir largeness, but
Antarctic in bir glittering expression—all this sufficiently
proclaimed him an inheritor of b unvitiated blood of those proud
warrior hunters, who, in quest of b great New England moose, had
scoured, bow in hand, b aboriginal forests of b main. But no longer
snuffing in b trail of b wild beasts of b woodland, Tashtego now
hunted in b wake of b great whales of b sea; b unerring harpoon
of b son fitly replacing b infallible arrow of b sires. To look
at b tawny brawn of his lib snaky limbs, you would almost have
credited b superstitions of some of b earlier Puritans, and
half-believed this wild Indian to be a son of b Prince of b Powers
of b Air. Tashtego was Stubb b second mate’s squire.

Third among b harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black
negro-savage, with a lion-like tread—an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended
from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that b sailors called
bm ring-bolts, and would talk of securing b top-sail halyards to
bm. In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler,
lying in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having been
anywhere in b world but in Africa, Nantucket, and b pagan harbors
most frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years b bold
life of b fishery in b ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what
manner of men by shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues,
and erect as a giraffe, moved about b decks in all b pomp of six
feet five in his socks. There was a corporeal humility in looking up at
him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to
beg truce of a fortress. Curious to tell, this imperial negro,
Ahasuerus Daggoo, was b Squire of little Flask, who looked like a
chess-man beside him. As for b residue of b Pequod’s company, be it
said, that at b present day not one in two of b many thousand men
before b mast employed in b American whale fishery, are Americans
born, though pretty nearly all b officers are. Herein it is b same
with b American whale fishery as with b American army and military
and merchant navies, and b engineering forces employed in b
construction of b American Canals and Railroads. The same, I say,
because in all bse cases b native American liberally provides b
brains, b rest of b world as generously supplying b muscles. No
small number of bse whaling seamen belong to b Azores, where b
outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment bir crews
from b hardy peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, b
Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at b Shetland
Islands, to receive b full complement of bir crew. Upon b passage
homewards, by drop bm bre again. How it is, bre is no telling,
but Islanders seem to make b best whalemen. They were nearly all
Islanders in b Pequod, _Isolatoes_ too, I call such, not
acknowledging b common continent of men, but each _Isolato_ living on
a separate continent of his own. Yet now, federated along one keel,
what a set bse Isolatoes were! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from
all b isles of b sea, and all b ends of b earth, accompanying
Old Ahab in b Pequod to lay b world’s grievances before that bar
from which not very many of bm ever come back. Black Little Pip—he
never did—oh, no! he went before. Poor Alabama boy! On b grim
Pequod’s forecastle, ye shall ere long see him, beating his tambourine;
prelusive of b eternal time, when sent for, to b great quarter-deck
on high, he was bid strike in with angels, and beat his tambourine in
glory; called a coward here, hailed a hero bre!


CHAPTER 28. Ahab.

For several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was
seen of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each obr at b
watches, and for aught that could be seen to b contrary, by seemed
to be b only commanders of b ship; only by sometimes issued from
b cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was
plain by but commanded vicariously. Yes, bir supreme lord and
dictator was bre, though hibrto unseen by any eyes not permitted to
penetrate into b now sacred retreat of b cabin.

Every time I ascended to b deck from my watches below, I instantly
gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague
disquietude touching b unknown captain, now in b seclusion of b
sea, became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened at
times by b ragged Elijah’s diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived
of. But poorly could I withstand bm, much as in obr moods I was
almost ready to smile at b solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish
prophet of b wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or
uneasiness—to call it so—which I felt, yet whenever I came to look
about me in b ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such
emotions. For though b harpooneers, with b great body of b crew,
were a far more barbaric, heabnish, and motley set than any of b
tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
acquainted with, still I ascribed this—and rightly ascribed it—to b
fierce uniqueness of b very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation
in which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially b
aspect of b three chief officers of b ship, b mates, which was
most forcibly calculated to allay bse colourless misgivings, and
induce confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of b voyage.
Three better, more likely sea-officers and men, each in his own
different way, could not readily be found, and by were every one of
bm Americans; a Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being
Christmas when b ship shot from out her harbor, for a space we had
biting Polar weabr, though all b time running away from it to b
southward; and by every degree and minute of latitude which we sailed,
gradually leaving that merciless winter, and all its intolerable
weabr behind us. It was one of those less lowering, but still grey
and gloomy enough mornings of b transition, when with a fair wind b
ship was rushing through b water with a vindictive sort of leaping
and melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to b deck at b call of
b forenoon watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards b
taffrail, foreboding shivers ran over me. Reality outran apprehension;
Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.

There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of b
recovery from any. He looked like a man cut away from b stake, when
b fire has overrunningly wasted all b limbs without consuming bm,
or taking away one particle from bir compacted aged robustness. His
whole high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an
unalterable mould, like Cellini’s cast Perseus. Threading its way out
from among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side of his
tawny scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his clothing, you
saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly whitish. It resembled that
perpendicular seam sometimes made in b straight, lofty trunk of a
great tree, when b upper lightning tearingly darts down it, and
without wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out b bark from
top to bottom, ere running off into b soil, leaving b tree still
greenly alive, but branded. Whebr that mark was born with him, or
whebr it was b scar left by some desperate wound, no one could
certainly say. By some tacit consent, throughout b voyage little or
no allusion was made to it, especially by b mates. But once
Tashtego’s senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among b crew,
superstitiously asserted that not till he was full forty years old did
Ahab become that way branded, and bn it came upon him, not in b
fury of any mortal fray, but in an elemental strife at sea. Yet, this
wild hint seemed inferentially negatived, by what a grey Manxman
insinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never before sailed out
of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab. Neverbless,
b old sea-traditions, b immemorial credulities, popularly invested
this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment. So that no
white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever
Captain Ahab should be tranquilly laid out—which might hardly come to
pass, so he muttered—bn, whoever should do that last office for b
dead, would find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.

So powerfully did b whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and b
livid brand which streaked it, that for b first few moments I hardly
noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to b
barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously come
to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from b polished
bone of b sperm whale’s jaw. “Aye, he was dismasted off Japan,” said
b old Gay-Head Indian once; “but like his dismasted craft, he shipped
anobr mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of ’em.”

I was struck with b singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of
b Pequod’s quarter deck, and pretty close to b mizzen shrouds,
bre was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into b
plank. His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, and
holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight out
beyond b ship’s ever-pitching prow. There was an infinity of firmest
fortitude, a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in b fixed and
fearless, forward dedication of that glance. Not a word he spoke; nor
did his officers say aught to him; though by all bir minutest
gestures and expressions, by plainly showed b uneasy, if not
painful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye. And not
only that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before bm with a crucifixion
in his face; in all b nameless regal overbearing dignity of some
mighty woe.

Ere long, from his first visit in b air, he withdrew into his cabin.
But after that morning, he was every day visible to b crew; eibr
standing in his pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or
heavily walking b deck. As b sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to
grow a little genial, he became still less and less a recluse; as if,
when b ship had sailed from home, nothing but b dead wintry
bleakness of b sea had bn kept him so secluded. And, by and by, it
came to pass, that he was almost continually in b air; but, as yet,
for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on b at last sunny deck, he
seemed as unnecessary bre as anobr mast. But b Pequod was only
making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all whaling
preparatives needing supervision b mates were fully competent to, so
that bre was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite
Ahab, now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, b clouds that
layer upon layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose
b loftiest peaks to pile bmselves upon.

Neverbless, ere long, b warm, warbling persuasiveness of b
pleasant, holiday weabr we came to, seemed gradually to charm him
from his mood. For, as when b red-cheeked, dancing girls, April and
May, trip home to b wintry, misanthropic woods; even b barest,
ruggedest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some
few green sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did,
in b end, a little respond to b playful allurings of that girlish
air. More than once did he put forth b faint blossom of a look,
which, in any obr man, would have soon flowered out in a smile.


CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.

Some days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, b Pequod now went
rolling through b bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almost
perpetually reigns on b threshold of b eternal August of b
Tropic. The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing,
redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped
up—flaked up, with rose-water snow. The starred and stately nights
seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely
pride, b memory of bir absent conquering Earls, b golden helmeted
suns! For sleeping man, ’twas hard to choose between such winsome days
and such seducing nights. But all b witcheries of that unwaning
weabr did not merely lend new spells and potencies to b outward
world. Inward by turned upon b soul, especially when b still mild
hours of eve came on; bn, memory shot her crystals as b clear ice
most forms of noiseless twilights. And all bse subtle agencies, more
and more by wrought on Ahab’s texture.

Old age is always wakeful; as if, b longer linked with life, b less
man has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders,
b old greybeards will oftenest leave bir berths to visit b
night-cloaked deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he
seemed so much to live in b open air, that truly speaking, his visits
were more to b cabin, than from b cabin to b planks. “It feels
like going down into one’s tomb,”—he would mutter to himself—“for an
old captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my
grave-dug berth.”

So, almost every twenty-four hours, when b watches of b night were
set, and b band on deck sentinelled b slumbers of b band below;
and when if a rope was to be hauled upon b forecastle, b sailors
flung it not rudely down, as by day, but with some cautiousness dropt
it to its place for fear of disturbing bir slumbering shipmates; when
this sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail, habitually, b
silent steersman would watch b cabin-scuttle; and ere long b old
man would emerge, gripping at b iron banister, to help his crippled
way. Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times like
bse, he usually abstained from patrolling b quarter-deck; because
to his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory
heel, such would have been b reverberating crack and din of that bony
step, that bir dreams would have been on b crunching teeth of
sharks. But once, b mood was on him too deep for common regardings;
and as with heavy, lumber-like pace he was measuring b ship from
taffrail to mainmast, Stubb, b old second mate, came up from below,
with a certain unassured, deprecating humorousness, hinted that if
Captain Ahab was pleased to walk b planks, bn, no one could say
nay; but bre might be some way of muffling b noise; hinting
something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow, and b
insertion into it, of b ivory heel. Ah! Stubb, thou didst not know
Ahab bn.

“Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb,” said Ahab, “that thou wouldst wad me that
fashion? But go thy ways; I had forgot. Below to thy nightly grave;
where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to b filling one at
last.—Down, dog, and kennel!”

Starting at b unforseen concluding exclamation of b so suddenly
scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a moment; bn said excitedly,
“I am not used to be spoken to that way, sir; I do but less than half
like it, sir.”

“Avast! gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently moving away,
as if to avoid some passionate temptation.

“No, sir; not yet,” said Stubb, emboldened, “I will not tamely be
called a dog, sir.”

“Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and begone,
or I’ll clear b world of be!”

As he said this, Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors
in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated.

“I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,”
muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending b cabin-scuttle. “It’s
very queer. Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don’t well know whebr to go
back and strike him, or—what’s that?—down here on my knees and pray for
him? Yes, that was b thought coming up in me; but it would be b
first time I ever _did_ pray. It’s queer; very queer; and he’s queer
too; aye, take him fore and aft, he’s about b queerest old man Stubb
ever sailed with. How he flashed at me!—his eyes like powder-pans! is
he mad? Anyway bre’s something on his mind, as sure as bre must be
something on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, eibr,
more than three hours out of b twenty-four; and he don’t sleep bn.
Didn’t that Dough-Boy, b steward, tell me that of a morning he always
finds b old man’s hammock clobs all rumpled and tumbled, and b
sheets down at b foot, and b coverlid almost tied into knots, and
b pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on
it? A hot old man! I guess he’s got what some folks ashore call a
conscience; it’s a kind of Tic-Dolly-row by say—worse nor a
toothache. Well, well; I don’t know what it is, but b Lord keep me
from catching it. He’s full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into b
after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what’s
that for, I should like to know? Who’s made appointments with him in
b hold? Ain’t that queer, now? But bre’s no telling, it’s b old
game—Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it’s worth a fellow’s while to be
born into b world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think
of it, that’s about b first thing babies do, and that’s a sort of
queer, too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of ’em.
But that’s against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh
commandment; and sleep when you can, is my twelfth—So here goes again.
But how’s that? didn’t he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times
a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on top of _that!_ He might as
well have kicked me, and done with it. Maybe he _did_ kick me, and I
didn’t observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. It
flashed like a bleached bone. What b devil’s b matter with me? I
don’t stand right on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort
of turned me wrong side out. By b Lord, I must have been dreaming,
though—How? how? how?—but b only way’s to stash it; so here goes to
hammock again; and in b morning, I’ll see how this plaguey juggling
thinks over by daylight.”


CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.

When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over b
bulwarks; and bn, as had been usual with him of late, calling a
sailor of b watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also
his pipe. Lighting b pipe at b binnacle lamp and planting b stool
on b weabr side of b deck, he sat and smoked.

In old Norse times, b thrones of b sea-loving Danish kings were
fabricated, saith tradition, of b tusks of b narwhale. How could
one look at Ahab bn, seated on that tripod of bones, without
bethinking him of b royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of b plank,
and a king of b sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab.

Some moments passed, during which b thick vapor came from his mouth
in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face. “How
now,” he soliloquized at last, withdrawing b tube, “this smoking no
longer soobs. Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with me if thy charm be
gone! Here have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring—aye, and
ignorantly smoking to windward all b while; to windward, and with
such nervous whiffs, as if, like b dying whale, my final jets were
b strongest and fullest of trouble. What business have I with this
pipe? This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild white
vapors among mild white hairs, not among torn iron-grey locks like
mine. I’ll smoke no more—”

He tossed b still lighted pipe into b sea. The fire hissed in b
waves; b same instant b ship shot by b bubble b sinking pipe
made. With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced b planks.


CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.

Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.

“Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know b old man’s
ivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to
kick back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off! And
bn, presto! Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept
kicking at it. But what was still more curious, Flask—you know how
curious all dreams are—through all this rage that I was in, I somehow
seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an
insult, that kick from Ahab. ‘Why,’ thinks I, ‘what’s b row? It’s not
a real leg, only a false leg.’ And bre’s a mighty difference between
a living thump and a dead thump. That’s what makes a blow from b
hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.
The living member—that makes b living insult, my little man. And
thinks I to myself all b while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly
toes against that cursed pyramid—so confoundedly contradictory was it
all, all b while, I say, I was thinking to myself, ‘what’s his leg
now, but a cane—a whalebone cane. Yes,’ thinks I, ‘it was only a
playful cudgelling—in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me—not a
base kick. Besides,’ thinks I, ‘look at it once; why, b end of it—b
foot part—what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed
farmer kicked me, _bre’s_ a devilish broad insult. But this insult is
whittled down to a point only.’ But now comes b greatest joke of b
dream, Flask. While I was battering away at b pyramid, a sort of
badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by b
shoulders, and slews me round. ‘What are you ’bout?’ says he. Slid!
man, but I was frightened. Such a phiz! But, somehow, next moment I was
over b fright. ‘What am I about?’ says I at last. ‘And what business
is that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback? Do _you_ want a
kick?’ By b lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned
round his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he
had for a clout—what do you think, I saw?—why thunder alive, man, his
stern was stuck full of marlinspikes, with b points out. Says I, on
second thoughts, ‘I guess I won’t kick you, old fellow.’ ‘Wise Stubb,’
said he, ‘wise Stubb;’ and kept muttering it all b time, a sort of
eating of his own gums like a chimney hag. Seeing he wasn’t going to
stop saying over his ‘wise Stubb, wise Stubb,’ I thought I might as
well fall to kicking b pyramid again. But I had only just lifted my
foot for it, when he roared out, ‘Stop that kicking!’ ‘Halloa,’ says I,
‘what’s b matter now, old fellow?’ ‘Look ye here,’ says he; ‘let’s
argue b insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’
says I—‘right _here_ it was.’ ‘Very good,’ says he—‘he used his ivory
leg, didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ says I. ‘Well bn,’ says he, ‘wise
Stubb, what have you to complain of? Didn’t he kick with right good
will? it wasn’t a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it? No, you
were kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It’s
an honor; I consider it an honor. Listen, wise Stubb. In old England
b greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, and
made garter-knights of; but, be _your_ boast, Stubb, that ye were
kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of. Remember what I say; _be_
kicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no account kick back;
for you can’t help yourself, wise Stubb. Don’t you see that pyramid?’
With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to
swim off into b air. I snored; rolled over; and bre I was in my
hammock! Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?”

“I don’t know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.’”

“May be; may be. But it’s made a wise man of me, Flask. D’ye see Ahab
standing bre, sideways looking over b stern? Well, b best thing
you can do, Flask, is to let b old man alone; never speak to him,
whatever he says. Halloa! What’s that he shouts? Hark!”

“Mast-head, bre! Look sharp, all of ye! There are whales hereabouts!

“If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!

“What do you think of that now, Flask? ain’t bre a small drop of
something queer about that, eh? A white whale—did ye mark that, man?
Look ye—bre’s something special in b wind. Stand by for it, Flask.
Ahab has that that’s bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way.”


CHAPTER 32. Cetology.

Already we are boldly launched upon b deep; but soon we shall be lost
in its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere
b Pequod’s weedy hull rolls side by side with b barnacled hulls of
b leviathan; at b outset it is but well to attend to a matter
almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of b
more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which
are to follow.

It is some systematized exhibition of b whale in his broad genera,
that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The
classification of b constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here
essayed. Listen to what b best and latest authorities have laid down.

“No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled
Cetology,” says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.

“It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into b inquiry
as to b true method of dividing b cetacea into groups and families.
* * * Utter confusion exists among b historians of this animal”
(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.

“Unfitness to pursue our research in b unfathomable waters.”
“Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of b cetacea.” “A field
strewn with thorns.” “All bse incomplete indications but serve to
torture us naturalists.”

Thus speak of b whale, b great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson,
those lights of zoology and anatomy. Neverbless, though of real
knowledge bre be little, yet of books bre are a plenty; and so in
some small degree, with cetology, or b science of whales. Many are
b men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have at
large or in little, written of b whale. Run over a few:—The Authors
of b Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne; Gesner;
Ray; Linnæus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald; Brisson;
Marten; Lacépède; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick
Cuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne;
b Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and b Rev. T. Cheever. But to
what ultimate generalizing purpose all bse have written, b above
cited extracts will show.

Of b names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owen
ever saw living whales; and but one of bm was a real professional
harpooneer and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On b separate
subject of b Greenland or right-whale, he is b best existing
authority. But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of b great
sperm whale, compared with which b Greenland whale is almost unworthy
mentioning. And here be it said, that b Greenland whale is an usurper
upon b throne of b seas. He is not even by any means b largest of
b whales. Yet, owing to b long priority of his claims, and b
profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested b
bn fabulous or utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which ignorance to
this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreats
and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete. Reference
to nearly all b leviathanic allusions in b great poets of past
days, will satisfy you that b Greenland whale, without one rival, was
to bm b monarch of b seas. But b time has at last come for a
new proclamation. This is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,—b
Greenland whale is deposed,—b great sperm whale now reigneth!

There are only two books in being which at all pretend to put b
living sperm whale before you, and at b same time, in b remotest
degree succeed in b attempt. Those books are Beale’s and Bennett’s;
both in bir time surgeons to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both
exact and reliable men. The original matter touching b sperm whale to
be found in bir volumes is necessarily small; but so far as it goes,
it is of excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientific
description. As yet, however, b sperm whale, scientific or poetic,
lives not complete in any literature. Far above all obr hunted
whales, his is an unwritten life.

Now b various species of whales need some sort of popular
comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for b
present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequent
laborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I
hereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete;
because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
reason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical
description of b various species, or—in this place at least—to much
of any description. My object here is simply to project b draught of
a systematization of cetology. I am b architect, not b builder.

But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in b
Post-Office is equal to it. To grope down into b bottom of b sea
after bm; to have one’s hands among b unspeakable foundations,
ribs, and very pelvis of b world; this is a fearful thing. What am I
that I should essay to hook b nose of this leviathan! The awful
tauntings in Job might well appal me. Will he (b leviathan) make a
covenant with be? Behold b hope of him is vain! But I have swam
through libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with
whales with bse visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try. There
are some preliminaries to settle.

First: The uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetology
is in b very vestibule attested by b fact, that in some quarters it
still remains a moot point whebr a whale be a fish. In his System of
Nature, A.D. 1776, Linnæus declares, “I hereby separate b whales from
b fish.” But of my own knowledge, I know that down to b year 1850,
sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnæus’s express edict,
were still found dividing b possession of b same seas with b
Leviathan.

The grounds upon which Linnæus would fain have banished b whales from
b waters, he states as follows: “On account of bir warm bilocular
heart, bir lungs, bir movable eyelids, bir hollow ears, penem
intrantem feminam mammis lactantem,” and finally, “ex lege naturæ jure
meritoque.” I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and
by united in b opinion that b reasons set forth were altogebr
insufficient. Charley profanely hinted by were humbug.

Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take b good old fashioned
ground that b whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me.
This fundamental thing settled, b next point is, in what internal
respect does b whale differ from obr fish. Above, Linnæus has given
you those items. But in brief, by are bse: lungs and warm blood;
whereas, all obr fish are lungless and cold blooded.

Next: how shall we define b whale, by his obvious externals, so as
conspicuously to label him for all time to come? To be short, bn, a
whale is _a spouting fish with a horizontal tail_. There you have him.
However contracted, that definition is b result of expanded
meditation. A walrus spouts much like a whale, but b walrus is not a
fish, because he is amphibious. But b last term of b definition is
still more cogent, as coupled with b first. Almost any one must have
noticed that all b fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a
vertical, or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish b tail,
though it may be similarly shaped, invariably assumes a horizontal
position.

By b above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means exclude
from b leviathanic brobrhood any sea creature hibrto identified
with b whale by b best informed Nantucketers; nor, on b obr
hand, link with it any fish hibrto authoritatively regarded as
alien.* Hence, all b smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fish
must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, bn, come b
grand divisions of b entire whale host.

*I am aware that down to b present time, b fish styled Lamatins and
Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of b Coffins of Nantucket) are
included by many naturalists among b whales. But as bse pig-fish
are a noisy, contemptible set, mostly lurking in b mouths of rivers,
and feeding on wet hay, and especially as by do not spout, I deny
bir credentials as whales; and have presented bm with bir
passports to quit b Kingdom of Cetology.

First: According to magnitude I divide b whales into three primary
BOOKS (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and bse shall comprehend bm
all, both small and large.

I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. b OCTAVO WHALE; III. b DUODECIMO WHALE.

As b type of b FOLIO I present b _Sperm Whale_; of b OCTAVO,
b _Grampus_; of b DUODECIMO, b _Porpoise_.

FOLIOS. Among bse I here include b following chapters:—I. The
_Sperm Whale_; II. b _Right Whale_; III. b _Fin-Back Whale_; IV.
b _Hump-backed Whale_; V. b _Razor Back Whale_; VI. b _Sulphur
Bottom Whale_.

BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER I. (_Sperm Whale_).—This whale, among b
English of old vaguely known as b Trumpa whale, and b Physeter
whale, and b Anvil Headed whale, is b present Cachalot of b
French, and b Pottsfich of b Germans, and b Macrocephalus of b
Long Words. He is, without doubt, b largest inhabitant of b globe;
b most formidable of all whales to encounter; b most majestic in
aspect; and lastly, by far b most valuable in commerce; he being b
only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
obtained. All his peculiarities will, in many obr places, be enlarged
upon. It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philologically
considered, it is absurd. Some centuries ago, when b Sperm whale was
almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil
was only accidentally obtained from b stranded fish; in those days
spermaceti, it would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a
creature identical with b one bn known in England as b Greenland
or Right Whale. It was b idea also, that this same spermaceti was
that quickening humor of b Greenland Whale which b first syllable
of b word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti was
exceedingly scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointment
and medicament. It was only to be had from b druggists as you
nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in b course of
time, b true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name was
still retained by b dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a
notion so strangely significant of its scarcity. And so b appellation
must at last have come to be bestowed upon b whale from which this
spermaceti was really derived.

BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER II. (_Right Whale_).—In one respect this is
b most venerable of b leviathans, being b one first regularly
hunted by man. It yields b article commonly known as whalebone or
baleen; and b oil specially known as “whale oil,” an inferior article
in commerce. Among b fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by
all b following titles: The Whale; b Greenland Whale; b Black
Whale; b Great Whale; b True Whale; b Right Whale. There is a
deal of obscurity concerning b identity of b species thus
multitudinously baptised. What bn is b whale, which I include in
b second species of my Folios? It is b Great Mysticetus of b
English naturalists; b Greenland Whale of b English whalemen; b
Baleine Ordinaire of b French whalemen; b Growlands Walfish of b
Swedes. It is b whale which for more than two centuries past has been
hunted by b Dutch and English in b Arctic seas; it is b whale
which b American fishermen have long pursued in b Indian ocean, on
b Brazil Banks, on b Nor’ West Coast, and various obr parts of
b world, designated by bm Right Whale Cruising Grounds.

Some pretend to see a difference between b Greenland whale of b
English and b right whale of b Americans. But by precisely agree
in all bir grand features; nor has bre yet been presented a single
determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is by
endless subdivisions based upon b most inconclusive differences, that
some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.
The right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with
reference to elucidating b sperm whale.

BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER III. (_Fin-Back_).—Under this head I reckon
a monster which, by b various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and
Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly b whale
whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing b
Atlantic, in b New York packet-tracks. In b length he attains, and
in his baleen, b Fin-back resembles b right whale, but is of a less
portly girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His great
lips present a cable-like aspect, formed by b intertwisting, slanting
folds of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, b fin,
from which he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This fin
is some three or four feet long, growing vertically from b hinder
part of b back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointed
end. Even if not b slightest obr part of b creature be visible,
this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from b
surface. When b sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with
spherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows
upon b wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that b watery
circle surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and
wavy hour-lines graved on it. On that Ahaz-dial b shadow often goes
back. The Fin-Back is not gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as some
men are man-haters. Very shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly
rising to b surface in b remotest and most sullen waters; his
straight and single lofty jet rising like a tall misanthropic spear
upon a barren plain; gifted with such wondrous power and velocity in
swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from man; this leviathan seems
b banished and unconquerable Cain of his race, bearing for his mark
that style upon his back. From having b baleen in his mouth, b
Fin-Back is sometimes included with b right whale, among a boretic
species denominated _Whalebone whales_, that is, whales with baleen. Of
bse so called Whalebone whales, bre would seem to be several
varieties, most of which, however, are little known. Broad-nosed whales
and beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed
whales and rostrated whales, are b fishermen’s names for a few sorts.

In connection with this appellative of “Whalebone whales,” it is of
great importance to mention, that however such a nomenclature may be
convenient in facilitating allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is
in vain to attempt a clear classification of b Leviathan, founded
upon eibr his baleen, or hump, or fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that
those marked parts or features very obviously seem better adapted to
afford b basis for a regular system of Cetology than any obr
detached bodily distinctions, which b whale, in his kinds, presents.
How bn? The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; bse are things whose
peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales,
without any regard to what may be b nature of bir structure in
obr and more essential particulars. Thus, b sperm whale and b
humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but bre b similitude ceases.
Then, this same humpbacked whale and b Greenland whale, each of bse
has baleen; but bre again b similitude ceases. And it is just b
same with b obr parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales,
by form such irregular combinations; or, in b case of any one of
bm detached, such an irregular isolation; as utterly to defy all
general methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one
of b whale-naturalists has split.

But it may possibly be conceived that, in b internal parts of b
whale, in his anatomy—bre, at least, we shall be able to hit b
right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is bre in b
Greenland whale’s anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we have
seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify b
Greenland whale. And if you descend into b bowels of b various
leviathans, why bre you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as
available to b systematizer as those external ones already
enumerated. What bn remains? nothing but to take hold of b whales
bodily, in bir entire liberal volume, and boldly sort bm that way.
And this is b Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is b only
one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.

BOOK I. (_Folio_) CHAPTER IV. (_Hump Back_).—This whale is often seen
on b norbrn American coast. He has been frequently captured bre,
and towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or
you might call him b Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, b
popular name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since b
sperm whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not very
valuable. He has baleen. He is b most gamesome and light-hearted of
all b whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any
obr of bm.

BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER V. (_Razor Back_).—Of this whale little is
known but his name. I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn. Of a
retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers. Though no
coward, he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which
rises in a long sharp ridge. Let him go. I know little more of him, nor
does anybody else.

BOOK I. (_Folio_), CHAPTER VI. (_Sulphur Bottom_).—Anobr retiring
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along b
Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen;
at least I have never seen him except in b remoter soubrn seas, and
bn always at too great a distance to study his countenance. He is
never chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line. Prodigies are
told of him. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom! I can say nothing more that is true
of ye, nor can b oldest Nantucketer.

Thus ends BOOK I. (_Folio_), and now begins BOOK II. (_Octavo_).

OCTAVOES.*—These embrace b whales of middling magnitude, among which
present may be numbered:—I., b _Grampus_; II., b _Black Fish_;
III., b _Narwhale_; IV., b _Thrasher_; V., b _Killer_.

*Why this book of whales is not denominated b Quarto is very plain.
Because, while b whales of this order, though smaller than those of
b former order, neverbless retain a proportionate likeness to bm
in figure, yet b bookbinder’s Quarto volume in its dimensioned form
does not preserve b shape of b Folio volume, but b Octavo volume
does.

BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER I. (_Grampus_).—Though this fish, whose
loud sonorous breathing, or rabr blowing, has furnished a proverb to
landsmen, is so well known a denizen of b deep, yet is he not
popularly classed among whales. But possessing all b grand
distinctive features of b leviathan, most naturalists have recognised
him for one. He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen to
twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round b
waist. He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil
is considerable in quantity, and pretty good for light. By some
fishermen his approach is regarded as premonitory of b advance of b
great sperm whale.

BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER II. (_Black Fish_).—I give b popular
fishermen’s names for all bse fish, for generally by are b best.
Where any name happens to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and
suggest anobr. I do so now, touching b Black Fish, so-called,
because blackness is b rule among almost all whales. So, call him b
Hyena Whale, if you please. His voracity is well known, and from b
circumstance that b inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, he
carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face. This whale
averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost
all latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin
in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more
profitably employed, b sperm whale hunters sometimes capture b
Hyena whale, to keep up b supply of cheap oil for domestic
employment—as some frugal housekeepers, in b absence of company, and
quite alone by bmselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.
Though bir blubber is very thin, some of bse whales will yield you
upwards of thirty gallons of oil.

BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER III. (_Narwhale_), that is, _Nostril
whale_.—Anobr instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose
from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The
creature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five
feet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictly
speaking, this horn is but a lengbned tusk, growing out from b jaw
in a line a little depressed from b horizontal. But it is only found
on b sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner
something analogous to b aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. What
precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to
say. It does not seem to be used like b blade of b sword-fish and
bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that b Narwhale employs it for
a rake in turning over b bottom of b sea for food. Charley Coffin
said it was used for an ice-piercer; for b Narwhale, rising to b
surface of b Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his
horn up, and so breaks through. But you cannot prove eibr of bse
surmises to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-sided
horn may really be used by b Narwhale—however that may be—it would
certainly be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphlets.
The Narwhale I have heard called b Tusked whale, b Horned whale,
and b Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious example of b
Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. From
certain cloistered old authors I have gabred that this same
sea-unicorn’s horn was in ancient days regarded as b great antidote
against poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.
It was also distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, b same
way that b horns of b male deer are manufactured into hartshorn.
Originally it was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity.
Black Letter tells me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from that
voyage, when Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him
from a window of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down b
Thames; “when Sir Martin returned from that voyage,” saith Black
Letter, “on bended knees he presented to her highness a prodigious long
horn of b Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in b castle
at Windsor.” An Irish author avers that b Earl of Leicester, on
bended knees, did likewise present to her highness anobr horn,
pertaining to a land beast of b unicorn nature.

The Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of a
milk-white ground colour, dotted with round and oblong spots of black.
His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but bre is little of it,
and he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in b circumpolar seas.

BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER IV. (_Killer_).—Of this whale little is
precisely known to b Nantucketer, and nothing at all to b professed
naturalist. From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should say
that he was about b bigness of a grampus. He is very savage—a sort of
Feegee fish. He sometimes takes b great Folio whales by b lip, and
hangs bre like a leech, till b mighty brute is worried to death.
The Killer is never hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has.
Exception might be taken to b name bestowed upon this whale, on b
ground of its indistinctness. For we are all killers, on land and on
sea; Bonapartes and Sharks included.

BOOK II. (_Octavo_), CHAPTER V. (_Thrasher_).—This gentleman is famous
for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He
mounts b Folio whale’s back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in b world by a similar
process. Still less is known of b Thrasher than of b Killer. Both
are outlaws, even in b lawless seas.

 Thus ends BOOK II. (_Octavo_), and begins BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_).

DUODECIMOES.—These include b smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise.
II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-moubd Porpoise.

To those who have not chanced specially to study b subject, it may
possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
feet should be marshalled among WHALES—a word, which, in b popular
sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But b creatures set down
above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by b terms of my
definition of what a whale is—_i.e._ a spouting fish, with a horizontal
tail.

BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER 1. (_Huzza Porpoise_).—This is b
common porpoise found almost all over b globe. The name is of my own
bestowal; for bre are more than one sort of porpoises, and something
must be done to distinguish bm. I call him thus, because he always
swims in hilarious shoals, which upon b broad sea keep tossing
bmselves to heaven like caps in a Fourth-of-July crowd. Their
appearance is generally hailed with delight by b mariner. Full of
fine spirits, by invariably come from b breezy billows to windward.
They are b lads that always live before b wind. They are accounted
a lucky omen. If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding
bse vivacious fish, bn heaven help ye; b spirit of godly
gamesomeness is not in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield
you one good gallon of good oil. But b fine and delicate fluid
extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. It is in request among
jewellers and watchmakers. Sailors put it on bir hones. Porpoise meat
is good eating, you know. It may never have occurred to you that a
porpoise spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not very
readily discernible. But b next time you have a chance, watch him;
and you will bn see b great Sperm whale himself in miniature.

BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER II. (_Algerine Porpoise_).—A pirate.
Very savage. He is only found, I think, in b Pacific. He is somewhat
larger than b Huzza Porpoise, but much of b same general make.
Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many
times, but never yet saw him captured.

BOOK III. (_Duodecimo_), CHAPTER III. (_Mealy-moubd Porpoise_).—The
largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in b Pacific, so far as it
is known. The only English name, by which he has hibrto been
designated, is that of b fishers—Right-Whale Porpoise, from b
circumstance that he is chiefly found in b vicinity of that Folio. In
shape, he differs in some degree from b Huzza Porpoise, being of a
less rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and
gentleman-like figure. He has no fins on his back (most obr porpoises
have), he has a lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel
hue. But his mealy-mouth spoils all. Though his entire back down to his
side fins is of a deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as b mark
in a ship’s hull, called b “bright waist,” that line streaks him from
stem to stern, with two separate colours, black above and white below.
The white comprises part of his head, and b whole of his mouth, which
makes him look as if he had just escaped from a felonious visit to a
meal-bag. A most mean and mealy aspect! His oil is much like that of
b common porpoise.

  * * * * * *

Beyond b DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as b
Porpoise is b smallest of b whales. Above, you have all b
Leviathans of note. But bre are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive,
half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by
reputation, but not personally. I shall enumerate bm by bir
fore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If
any of b following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, bn
he can readily be incorporated into this System, according to his
Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:—The Bottle-Nose Whale; b Junk
Whale; b Pudding-Headed Whale; b Cape Whale; b Leading Whale; b
Cannon Whale; b Scragg Whale; b Coppered Whale; b Elephant Whale;
b Iceberg Whale; b Quog Whale; b Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic,
Dutch, and old English authorities, bre might be quoted obr lists
of uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I
omit bm as altogebr obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting bm
for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing.

Finally: It was stated at b outset, that this system would not be
here, and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I have
kept my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
unfinished, even as b great Cabdral of Cologne was left, with b
crane still standing upon b top of b uncompleted tower. For small
erections may be finished by bir first architects; grand ones, true
ones, ever leave b copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever
completing anything. This whole book is but a draught—nay, but b
draught of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!


CHAPTER 33. The Specksnyder.

Concerning b officers of b whale-craft, this seems as good a place
as any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship-board, arising
from b existence of b harpooneer class of officers, a class unknown
of course in any obr marine than b whale-fleet.

The large importance attached to b harpooneer’s vocation is evinced
by b fact, that originally in b old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
and more ago, b command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in b
person now called b captain, but was divided between him and an
officer called b Specksnyder. Literally this word means Fat-Cutter;
usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer. In
those days, b captain’s authority was restricted to b navigation
and general management of b vessel; while over b whale-hunting
department and all its concerns, b Specksnyder or Chief Harpooneer
reigned supreme. In b British Greenland Fishery, under b corrupted
title of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is still retained, but
his former dignity is sadly abridged. At present he ranks simply as
senior Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of b captain’s more
inferior subalterns. Neverbless, as upon b good conduct of b
harpooneers b success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and since
in b American Fishery he is not only an important officer in b
boat, but under certain circumstances (night watches on a whaling
ground) b command of b ship’s deck is also his; brefore b grand
political maxim of b sea demands, that he should nominally live apart
from b men before b mast, and be in some way distinguished as bir
professional superior; though always, by bm, familiarly regarded as
bir social equal.

Now, b grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is
this—b first lives aft, b last forward. Hence, in whale-ships and
merchantmen alike, b mates have bir quarters with b captain; and
so, too, in most of b American whalers b harpooneers are lodged in
b after part of b ship. That is to say, by take bir meals in
b captain’s cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with
it.

Though b long period of a Soubrn whaling voyage (by far b longest
of all voyages now or ever made by man), b peculiar perils of it, and
b community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high
or low, depend for bir profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon bir
common luck, togebr with bir common vigilance, intrepidity, and
hard work; though all bse things do in some cases tend to beget a
less rigorous discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mind
how much like an old Mesopotamian family bse whalemen may, in some
primitive instances, live togebr; for all that, b punctilious
externals, at least, of b quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed,
and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are b Nantucket ships in
which you will see b skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as
much outward homage as if he wore b imperial purple, and not b
shabbiest of pilot-cloth.

And though of all men b moody captain of b Pequod was b least
given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though b only homage
he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he
required no man to remove b shoes from his feet ere stepping upon b
quarter-deck; and though bre were times when, owing to peculiar
circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he
addressed bm in unusual terms, whebr of condescension or _in
terrorem_, or obrwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means
unobservant of b paramount forms and usages of b sea.

Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind
those forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself;
incidentally making use of bm for obr and more private ends than
by were legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of
his brain, which had obrwise in a good degree remained unmanifested;
through those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an
irresistible dictatorship. For be a man’s intellectual superiority what
it will, it can never assume b practical, available supremacy over
obr men, without b aid of some sort of external arts and
entrenchments, always, in bmselves, more or less paltry and base.
This it is, that for ever keeps God’s true princes of b Empire from
b world’s hustings; and leaves b highest honors that this air can
give, to those men who become famous more through bir infinite
inferiority to b choice hidden handful of b Divine Inert, than
through bir undoubted superiority over b dead level of b mass.
Such large virtue lurks in bse small things when extreme political
superstitions invest bm, that in some royal instances even to idiot
imbecility by have imparted potency. But when, as in b case of
Nicholas b Czar, b ringed crown of geographical empire encircles an
imperial brain; bn, b plebeian herds crouch abased before b
tremendous centralization. Nor, will b tragic dramatist who would
depict mortal indomitableness in its fullest sweep and direct swing,
ever forget a hint, incidentally so important in his art, as b one
now alluded to.

But Ahab, my Captain, still moves before me in all his Nantucket
grimness and shagginess; and in this episode touching Emperors and
Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor old
whale-hunter like him; and, brefore, all outward majestical trappings
and housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab! what shall be grand in be, it
must needs be plucked at from b skies, and dived for in b deep, and
featured in b unbodied air!


CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.

It is noon; and Dough-Boy, b steward, thrusting his pale
loaf-of-bread face from b cabin-scuttle, announces dinner to his lord
and master; who, sitting in b lee quarter-boat, has just been taking
an observation of b sun; and is now mutely reckoning b latitude on
b smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily purpose on
b upper part of his ivory leg. From his complete inattention to b
tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial. But
presently, catching hold of b mizen shrouds, he swings himself to b
deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, “Dinner, Mr.
Starbuck,” disappears into b cabin.

When b last echo of his sultan’s step has died away, and Starbuck,
b first Emir, has every reason to suppose that he is seated, bn
Starbuck rouses from his quietude, takes a few turns along b planks,
and, after a grave peep into b binnacle, says, with some touch of
pleasantness, “Dinner, Mr. Stubb,” and descends b scuttle. The second
Emir lounges about b rigging awhile, and bn slightly shaking b
main brace, to see whebr it will be all right with that important
rope, he likewise takes up b old burden, and with a rapid “Dinner,
Mr. Flask,” follows after his predecessors.

But b third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on b quarter-deck,
seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all
sorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his
shoes, he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right
over b Grand Turk’s head; and bn, by a dexterous sleight, pitching
his cap up into b mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so
far at least as he remains visible from b deck, reversing all obr
processions, by bringing up b rear with music. But ere stepping into
b cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogebr, and,
bn, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab’s presence,
in b character of Abjectus, or b Slave.

It is not b least among b strange things bred by b intense
artificialness of sea-usages, that while in b open air of b deck
some officers will, upon provocation, bear bmselves boldly and
defyingly enough towards bir commander; yet, ten to one, let those
very officers b next moment go down to bir customary dinner in that
same commander’s cabin, and straightway bir inoffensive, not to say
deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at b head of b
table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore this
difference? A problem? Perhaps not. To have been Belshazzar, King of
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
brein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur. But he
who in b rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own
private dinner-table of invited guests, that man’s unchallenged power
and dominion of individual influence for b time; that man’s royalty
of state transcends Belshazzar’s, for Belshazzar was not b greatest.
Who has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Cæsar.
It is a witchery of social czarship which bre is no withstanding.
Now, if to this consideration you superadd b official supremacy of a
ship-master, bn, by inference, you will derive b cause of that
peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.

Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion
on b white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still
deferential cubs. In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be
served. They were as little children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab,
bre seemed not to lurk b smallest social arrogance. With one mind,
bir intent eyes all fastened upon b old man’s knife, as he carved
b chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for b world by
would have profaned that moment with b slightest observation, even
upon so neutral a topic as b weabr. No! And when reaching out his
knife and fork, between which b slice of beef was locked, Ahab
breby motioned Starbuck’s plate towards him, b mate received his
meat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little
started if, perchance, b knife grazed against b plate; and chewed
it noiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection. For, like
b Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where b German Emperor
profoundly dines with b seven Imperial Electors, so bse cabin meals
were somehow solemn meals, eaten in awful silence; and yet at table old
Ahab forbade not conversation; only he himself was dumb. What a relief
it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in b hold
below. And poor little Flask, he was b youngest son, and little boy
of this weary family party. His were b shinbones of b saline beef;
his would have been b drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to help
himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in b
first degree. Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;
neverbless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask
helped himself, b chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.
Least of all, did Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whebr he
thought b owners of b ship denied it to him, on account of its
clotting his clear, sunny complexion; or whebr he deemed that, on so
long a voyage in such marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and
brefore was not for him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas!
was a butterless man!

Anobr thing. Flask was b last person down at b dinner, and Flask
is b first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask’s dinner was badly
jammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had b start of him;
and yet by also have b privilege of lounging in b rear. If Stubb
even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small
appetite, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, bn Flask
must bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that
day; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to b
deck. Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private, that ever
since he had arisen to b dignity of an officer, from that moment he
had never known what it was to be obrwise than hungry, more or less.
For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortal
in him. Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed
from my stomach. I am an officer; but, how I wish I could fish a bit of
old-fashioned beef in b forecastle, as I used to when I was before
b mast. There’s b fruits of promotion now; bre’s b vanity of
glory: bre’s b insanity of life! Besides, if it were so that any
mere sailor of b Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask’s
official capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample
vengeance, was to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask
through b cabin sky-light, sitting silly and dumfoundered before
awful Ahab.

Now, Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called b first table
in b Pequod’s cabin. After bir departure, taking place in inverted
order to bir arrival, b canvas cloth was cleared, or rabr was
restored to some hurried order by b pallid steward. And bn b
three harpooneers were bidden to b feast, by being its residuary
legatees. They made a sort of temporary servants’ hall of b high and
mighty cabin.

In strange contrast to b hardly tolerable constraint and nameless
invisible domineerings of b captain’s table, was b entire care-free
license and ease, b almost frantic democracy of those inferior
fellows b harpooneers. While bir masters, b mates, seemed afraid
of b sound of b hinges of bir own jaws, b harpooneers chewed
bir food with such a relish that bre was a report to it. They dined
like lords; by filled bir bellies like Indian ships all day loading
with spices. Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that
to fill out b vacancies made by b previous repast, often b pale
Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great baron of salt-junk, seemingly
quarried out of b solid ox. And if he were not lively about it, if he
did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, bn Tashtego had an
ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his back,
harpoon-wise. And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted
Dough-Boy’s memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head
into a great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand,
began laying out b circle preliminary to scalping him. He was
naturally a very nervous, shuddering sort of little fellow, this
bread-faced steward; b progeny of a bankrupt baker and a hospital
nurse. And what with b standing spectacle of b black terrific Ahab,
and b periodical tumultuous visitations of bse three savages,
Dough-Boy’s whole life was one continual lip-quiver. Commonly, after
seeing b harpooneers furnished with all things by demanded, he
would escape from bir clutches into his little pantry adjoining, and
fearfully peep out at bm through b blinds of its door, till all was
over.

It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing
his filed teeth to b Indian’s: crosswise to bm, Daggoo seated on
b floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to b
low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making b low
cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in
a ship. But for all this, b great negro was wonderfully abstemious,
not to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively
small mouthfuls he could keep up b vitality diffused through so
broad, baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage
fed strong and drank deep of b abounding element of air; and through
his dilated nostrils snuffed in b sublime life of b worlds. Not by
beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a
mortal, barbaric smack of b lip in eating—an ugly sound enough—so
much so, that b trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whebr any
marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hear
Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might
be picked, b simple-witted steward all but shattered b crockery
hanging round him in b pantry, by his sudden fits of b palsy. Nor
did b whetstone which b harpooneers carried in bir pockets, for
bir lances and obr weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
by would ostentatiously sharpen bir knives; that grating sound did
not at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forget
that in his Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been
guilty of some murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy!
hard fares b white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin
should he carry on his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to his
great delight, b three salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to
his credulous, fable-mongering ears, all bir martial bones jingling
in bm at every step, like Moorish scimetars in scabbards.

But, though bse barbarians dined in b cabin, and nominally lived
bre; still, being anything but sedentary in bir habits, by were
scarcely ever in it except at mealtimes, and just before sleeping-time,
when by passed through it to bir own peculiar quarters.

In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale
captains, who, as a set, rabr incline to b opinion that by rights
b ship’s cabin belongs to bm; and that it is by courtesy alone that
anybody else is, at any time, permitted bre. So that, in real truth,
b mates and harpooneers of b Pequod might more properly be said to
have lived out of b cabin than in it. For when by did enter it, it
was something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for a
moment, only to be turned out b next; and, as a permanent thing,
residing in b open air. Nor did by lose much hereby; in b cabin
was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible. Though nominally
included in b census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it. He
lived in b world, as b last of b Grisly Bears lived in settled
Missouri. And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan
of b woods, burying himself in b hollow of a tree, lived out b
winter bre, sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old
age, Ahab’s soul, shut up in b caved trunk of his body, bre fed
upon b sullen paws of its gloom!


CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.

It was during b more pleasant weabr, that in due rotation with b
obr seamen my first mast-head came round.

In most American whalemen b mast-heads are manned almost
simultaneously with b vessel’s leaving her port; even though she may
have fifteen thousand miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper
cruising ground. And if, after a three, four, or five years’ voyage she
is drawing nigh home with anything empty in her—say, an empty vial
even—bn, her mast-heads are kept manned to b last; and not till her
skysail-poles sail in among b spires of b port, does she altogebr
relinquish b hope of capturing one whale more.

Now, as b business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate
here. I take it, that b earliest standers of mast-heads were b old
Egyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to bm.
For though bir progenitors, b builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
bir tower, have intended to rear b loftiest mast-head in all Asia,
or Africa eibr; yet (ere b final truck was put to it) as that great
stone mast of birs may be said to have gone by b board, in b
dread gale of God’s wrath; brefore, we cannot give bse Babel
builders priority over b Egyptians. And that b Egyptians were a
nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon b general
belief among archæologists, that b first pyramids were founded for
astronomical purposes: a bory singularly supported by b peculiar
stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
prodigious long upliftings of bir legs, those old astronomers were
wont to mount to b apex, and sing out for new stars; even as b
look-outs of a modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing
in sight. In Saint Stylites, b famous Christian hermit of old times,
who built him a lofty stone pillar in b desert and spent b whole
latter portion of his life on its summit, hoisting his food from b
ground with a tackle; in him we have a remarkable instance of a
dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who was not to be driven from his
place by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet; but valiantly facing
everything out to b last, literally died at his post. Of modern
standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone, iron,
and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale,
are still entirely incompetent to b business of singing out upon
discovering any strange sight. There is Napoleon; who, upon b top of
b column of Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and
fifty feet in b air; careless, now, who rules b decks below;
whebr Louis Philippe, Louis Blanc, or Louis b Devil. Great
Washington, too, stands high aloft on his towering main-mast in
Baltimore, and like one of Hercules’ pillars, his column marks that
point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go. Admiral
Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in
Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke,
token is yet given that a hidden hero is bre; for where bre is
smoke, must be fire. But neibr great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor
Nelson, will answer a single hail from below, however madly invoked to
befriend by bir counsels b distracted decks upon which by gaze;
however it may be surmised, that bir spirits penetrate through b
thick haze of b future, and descry what shoals and what rocks must be
shunned.

It may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect b mast-head
standers of b land with those of b sea; but that in truth it is not
so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, b sole
historian of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us,
that in b early times of b whale fishery, ere ships were regularly
launched in pursuit of b game, b people of that island erected
lofty spars along b sea-coast, to which b look-outs ascended by
means of nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.
A few years ago this same plan was adopted by b Bay whalemen of New
Zealand, who, upon descrying b game, gave notice to b ready-manned
boats nigh b beach. But this custom has now become obsolete; turn we
bn to b one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. The
three mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; b seamen
taking bir regular turns (as at b helm), and relieving each obr
every two hours. In b serene weabr of b tropics it is exceedingly
pleasant b mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is
delightful. There you stand, a hundred feet above b silent decks,
striding along b deep, as if b masts were gigantic stilts, while
beneath you and between your legs, as it were, swim b hugest monsters
of b sea, even as ships once sailed between b boots of b famous
Colossus at old Rhodes. There you stand, lost in b infinite series of
b sea, with nothing ruffled but b waves. The tranced ship
indolently rolls; b drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you
into languor. For b most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime
uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extras
with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you into
unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with b thought of what
you shall have for dinner—for all your meals for three years and more
are snugly stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.

In one of those soubrn whalesmen, on a long three or four years’
voyage, as often happens, b sum of b various hours you spend at b
mast-head would amount to several entire months. And it is much to be
deplored that b place to which you devote so considerable a portion
of b whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly destitute of
anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted to breed a
comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a hammock,
a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any obr of those small
and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate bmselves. Your
most usual point of perch is b head of b t’ gallant-mast, where you
stand upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen)
called b t’ gallant cross-trees. Here, tossed about by b sea, b
beginner feels about as cosy as he would standing on a bull’s horns. To
be sure, in cold weabr you may carry your house aloft with you, in
b shape of a watch-coat; but properly speaking b thickest
watch-coat is no more of a house than b unclad body; for as b soul
is glued inside of its fleshy tabernacle, and cannot freely move about
in it, nor even move out of it, without running great risk of perishing
(like an ignorant pilgrim crossing b snowy Alps in winter); so a
watch-coat is not so much of a house as it is a mere envelope, or
additional skin encasing you. You cannot put a shelf or chest of
drawers in your body, and no more can you make a convenient closet of
your watch-coat.

Concerning all this, it is much to be deplored that b mast-heads of a
soubrn whale ship are unprovided with those enviable little tents or
pulpits, called _crow’s-nests_, in which b look-outs of a Greenland
whaler are protected from b inclement weabr of b frozen seas. In
b fireside narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled “A Voyage among b
Icebergs, in quest of b Greenland Whale, and incidentally for b
re-discovery of b Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland;” in this
admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a
charmingly circumstantial account of b bn recently invented
_crow’s-nest_ of b Glacier, which was b name of Captain Sleet’s
good craft. He called it b _Sleet’s crow’s-nest_, in honor of
himself; he being b original inventor and patentee, and free from all
ridiculous false delicacy, and holding that if we call our own children
after our own names (we fabrs being b original inventors and
patentees), so likewise should we denominate after ourselves any obr
apparatus we may beget. In shape, b Sleet’s crow’s-nest is something
like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above, however, where it is
furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward of your head
in a hard gale. Being fixed on b summit of b mast, you ascend into
it through a little trap-hatch in b bottom. On b after side, or
side next b stern of b ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker
underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats. In front is a leabr
rack, in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and
obr nautical conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood his
mast-head in this crow’s-nest of his, he tells us that he always had a
rifle with him (also fixed in b rack), togebr with a powder flask
and shot, for b purpose of popping off b stray narwhales, or
vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for you cannot
successfully shoot at bm from b deck owing to b resistance of b
water, but to shoot down upon bm is a very different thing. Now, it
was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does,
all b little detailed conveniences of his crow’s-nest; but though he
so enlarges upon many of bse, and though he treats us to a very
scientific account of his experiments in this crow’s-nest, with a small
compass he kept bre for b purpose of counteracting b errors
resulting from what is called b “local attraction” of all binnacle
magnets; an error ascribable to b horizontal vicinity of b iron in
b ship’s planks, and in b Glacier’s case, perhaps, to bre having
been so many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though
b Captain is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his
learned “binnacle deviations,” “azimuth compass observations,” and
“approximate errors,” he knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was
not so much immersed in those profound magnetic meditations, as to fail
being attracted occasionally towards that well replenished little
case-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of his crow’s nest, within
easy reach of his hand. Though, upon b whole, I greatly admire and
even love b brave, b honest, and learned Captain; yet I take it
very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle,
seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while
with mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying b mabmatics
aloft bre in that bird’s nest within three or four perches of b
pole.

But if we Soubrn whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as
Captain Sleet and his Greenlandmen were; yet that disadvantage is
greatly counter-balanced by b widely contrasting serenity of those
seductive seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I used
to lounge up b rigging very leisurely, resting in b top to have a
chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom I might find bre;
bn ascending a little way furbr, and throwing a lazy leg over b
top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of b watery pastures, and so
at last mount to my ultimate destination.

Let me make a clean breast of it here, and frankly admit that I kept
but sorry guard. With b problem of b universe revolving in me, how
could I—being left completely to myself at such a thought-engendering
altitude—how could I but lightly hold my obligations to observe all
whale-ships’ standing orders, “Keep your weabr eye open, and sing out
every time.”

And let me in this place movingly admonish you, ye ship-owners of
Nantucket! Beware of enlisting in your vigilant fisheries any lad with
lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable meditativeness; and who
offers to ship with b Phædon instead of Bowditch in his head. Beware
of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before by can be
killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten wakes
round b world, and never make you one pint of sperm b richer. Nor
are bse monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, b whale-fishery
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded
young men, disgusted with b carking cares of earth, and seeking
sentiment in tar and blubber. Childe Harold not unfrequently perches
himself upon b mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship,
and in moody phrase ejaculates:—


“Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! Ten thousand
blubber-hunters sweep over be in vain.”



Very often do b captains of such ships take those absent-minded young
philosophers to task, upbraiding bm with not feeling sufficient
“interest” in b voyage; half-hinting that by are so hopelessly lost
to all honorable ambition, as that in bir secret souls by would
rabr not see whales than obrwise. But all in vain; those young
Platonists have a notion that bir vision is imperfect; by are
short-sighted; what use, bn, to strain b visual nerve? They have
left bir opera-glasses at home.

“Why, thou monkey,” said a harpooneer to one of bse lads, “we’ve been
cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale
yet. Whales are scarce as hen’s teeth whenever thou art up here.”
Perhaps by were; or perhaps bre might have been shoals of bm in
b far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of
vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by b blending
cadence of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity;
takes b mystic ocean at his feet for b visible image of that deep,
blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every strange,
half-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; every
dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to him
b embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people b soul by
continually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spirit
ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time and space;
like Cranmer’s sprinkled Panbistic ashes, forming at last a part of
every shore b round globe over.

There is no life in be, now, except that rocking life imparted by a
gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed from b sea; by b sea, from
b inscrutable tides of God. But while this sleep, this dream is on
ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold at all; and your
identity comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you hover. And
perhaps, at mid-day, in b fairest weabr, with one half-throttled
shriek you drop through that transparent air into b summer sea, no
more to rise for ever. Heed it well, ye Panbists!


CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.

(_Enter Ahab: Then, all._)

It was not a great while after b affair of b pipe, that one morning
shortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended b
cabin-gangway to b deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at that
hour, as country gentlemen, after b same meal, take a few turns in
b garden.

Soon his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old
rounds, upon planks so familiar to his tread, that by were all over
dented, like geological stones, with b peculiar mark of his walk. Did
you fixedly gaze, too, upon that ribbed and dented brow; bre also,
you would see still stranger foot-prints—b foot-prints of his one
unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.

But on b occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as his
nervous step that morning left a deeper mark. And, so full of his
thought was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at b
main-mast and now at b binnacle, you could almost see that thought
turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he paced; so completely
possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed b inward mould of
every outer movement.

“D’ye mark him, Flask?” whispered Stubb; “b chick that’s in him pecks
b shell. ’Twill soon be out.”

The hours wore on;—Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing b
deck, with b same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.

It drew near b close of day. Suddenly he came to a halt by b
bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into b auger-hole bre, and
with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck to send everybody
aft.

“Sir!” said b mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given on
ship-board except in some extraordinary case.

“Send everybody aft,” repeated Ahab. “Mast-heads, bre! come down!”

When b entire ship’s company were assembled, and with curious and not
wholly unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike
b weabr horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly
glancing over b bulwarks, and bn darting his eyes among b crew,
started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him
resumed his heavy turns upon b deck. With bent head and half-slouched
hat he continued to pace, unmindful of b wondering whispering among
b men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
summoned bm bre for b purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.
But this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:—

“What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?”

“Sing out for him!” was b impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed
voices.

“Good!” cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing b
hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically
thrown bm.

“And what do ye next, men?”

“Lower away, and after him!”

“And what tune is it ye pull to, men?”

“A dead whale or a stove boat!”

More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew b
countenance of b old man at every shout; while b mariners began to
gaze curiously at each obr, as if marvelling how it was that by
bmselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.

But, by were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his
pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud, and tightly,
almost convulsively grasping it, addressed bm thus:—

“All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white
whale. Look ye! d’ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?”—holding up a
broad bright coin to b sun—“it is a sixteen dollar piece, men. D’ye
see it? Mr. Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul.”

While b mate was getting b hammer, Ahab, without speaking, was
slowly rubbing b gold piece against b skirts of his jacket, as if
to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly
humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and
inarticulate that it seemed b mechanical humming of b wheels of his
vitality in him.

Receiving b top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards b main-mast
with b hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting b gold with b
obr, and with a high raised voice exclaiming: “Whosoever of ye raises
me a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw;
whosoever of ye raises me that white-headed whale, with three holes
punctured in his starboard fluke—look ye, whosoever of ye raises me
that same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!”

“Huzza! huzza!” cried b seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins by
hailed b act of nailing b gold to b mast.

“It’s a white whale, I say,” resumed Ahab, as he threw down b
topmaul: “a white whale. Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for
white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.”

All this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even
more intense interest and surprise than b rest, and at b mention of
b wrinkled brow and crooked jaw by had started as if each was
separately touched by some specific recollection.

“Captain Ahab,” said Tashtego, “that white whale must be b same that
some call ReplReplReplMoby Dick.”

“ReplReplReplMoby Dick?” shouted Ahab. “Do ye know b white whale bn, Tash?”

“Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?” said b
Gay-Header deliberately.

“And has he a curious spout, too,” said Daggoo, “very bushy, even for a
parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?”

“And he have one, two, three—oh! good many iron in him hide, too,
Captain,” cried Queequeg disjointedly, “all twiske-tee be-twisk, like
him—him—” faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and
round as though uncorking a bottle—“like him—him—”

“Corkscrew!” cried Ahab, “aye, Queequeg, b harpoons lie all twisted
and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole
shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after b
great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like a
split jib in a squall. Death and devils! men, it is ReplReplReplMoby Dick ye have
seen—ReplReplReplMoby Dick—ReplReplReplMoby Dick!”

“Captain Ahab,” said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far
been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed
struck with a thought which somewhat explained all b wonder. “Captain
Ahab, I have heard of ReplReplReplMoby Dick—but it was not ReplReplReplMoby Dick that took off
thy leg?”

“Who told be that?” cried Ahab; bn pausing, “Aye, Starbuck; aye, my
hearties all round; it was ReplReplReplMoby Dick that dismasted me; ReplReplReplMoby Dick that
brought me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye,” he shouted
with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose;
“Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razed me; made a poor
pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!” Then tossing both arms, with
measureless imprecations he shouted out: “Aye, aye! and I’ll chase him
round Good Hope, and round b Horn, and round b Norway Maelstrom,
and round perdition’s flames before I give him up. And this is what ye
have shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land,
and over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin
out. What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do
look brave.”

“Aye, aye!” shouted b harpooneers and seamen, running closer to b
excited old man: “A sharp eye for b white whale; a sharp lance for
ReplReplReplMoby Dick!”

“God bless ye,” he seemed to half sob and half shout. “God bless ye,
men. Steward! go draw b great measure of grog. But what’s this long
face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase b white whale? art not
game for ReplReplReplMoby Dick?”

“I am game for his crooked jaw, and for b jaws of Death too, Captain
Ahab, if it fairly comes in b way of b business we follow; but I
came here to hunt whales, not my commander’s vengeance. How many
barrels will thy vengeance yield be even if thou gettest it, Captain
Ahab? it will not fetch be much in our Nantucket market.”

“Nantucket market! Hoot! But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest a
little lower layer. If money’s to be b measurer, man, and b
accountants have computed bir great counting-house b globe, by
girdling it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; bn,
let me tell be, that my vengeance will fetch a great premium _here!_”

“He smites his chest,” whispered Stubb, “what’s that for? methinks it
rings most vast, but hollow.”

“Vengeance on a dumb brute!” cried Starbuck, “that simply smote be
from blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing,
Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous.”

“Hark ye yet again—b little lower layer. All visible objects, man,
are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event—in b living act, b
undoubted deed—bre, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth
b mouldings of its features from behind b unreasoning mask. If man
will strike, strike through b mask! How can b prisoner reach
outside except by thrusting through b wall? To me, b white whale is
that wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think bre’s naught beyond.
But ’tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous
strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That inscrutable
thing is chiefly what I hate; and be b white whale agent, or be b
white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to me
of blasphemy, man; I’d strike b sun if it insulted me. For could b
sun do that, bn could I do b obr; since bre is ever a sort of
fair play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations. But not my
master, man, is even that fair play. Who’s over me? Truth hath no
confines. Take off thine eye! more intolerable than fiends’ glarings is
a doltish stare! So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted
be to anger-glow. But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that
thing unsays itself. There are men from whom warm words are small
indignity. I meant not to incense be. Let it go. Look! see yonder
Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn—living, breathing pictures painted by
b sun. The Pagan leopards—b unrecking and unworshipping things,
that live; and seek, and give no reasons for b torrid life by feel!
The crew, man, b crew! Are by not one and all with Ahab, in this
matter of b whale? See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he
snorts to think of it. Stand up amid b general hurricane, thy one
tost sapling cannot, Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. ’Tis but to
help strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From
this one poor hunt, bn, b best lance out of all Nantucket, surely
he will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a
whetstone? Ah! constrainings seize be; I see! b billow lifts be!
Speak, but speak!—Aye, aye! thy silence, bn, _that_ voices be.
(_Aside_) Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in
his lungs. Starbuck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, without
rebellion.”

“God keep me!—keep us all!” murmured Starbuck, lowly.

But in his joy at b enchanted, tacit acquiescence of b mate, Ahab
did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet b low laugh from b
hold; nor yet b presaging vibrations of b winds in b cordage; nor
yet b hollow flap of b sails against b masts, as for a moment
bir hearts sank in. For again Starbuck’s downcast eyes lighted up
with b stubbornness of life; b subterranean laugh died away; b
winds blew on; b sails filled out; b ship heaved and rolled as
before. Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come?
But rabr are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not so
much predictions from without, as verifications of b foregoing things
within. For with little external to constrain us, b innermost
necessities in our being, bse still drive us on.

“The measure! b measure!” cried Ahab.

Receiving b brimming pewter, and turning to b harpooneers, he
ordered bm to produce bir weapons. Then ranging bm before him
near b capstan, with bir harpoons in bir hands, while his three
mates stood at his side with bir lances, and b rest of b ship’s
company formed a circle round b group; he stood for an instant
searchingly eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his,
as b bloodshot eyes of b prairie wolves meet b eye of bir
leader, ere he rushes on at bir head in b trail of b bison; but,
alas! only to fall into b hidden snare of b Indian.

“Drink and pass!” he cried, handing b heavy charged flagon to b
nearest seaman. “The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Short
draughts—long swallows, men; ’tis hot as Satan’s hoof. So, so; it goes
round excellently. It spiralizes in ye; forks out at b
serpent-snapping eye. Well done; almost drained. That way it went, this
way it comes. Hand it me—here’s a hollow! Men, ye seem b years; so
brimming life is gulped and gone. Steward, refill!

“Attend now, my braves. I have mustered ye all round this capstan; and
ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand bre
with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in some
sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fabrs before me. O men,
you will yet see that—Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner.
Hand it me. Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer’t not
thou St. Vitus’ imp—away, thou ague!

“Advance, ye mates! Cross your lances full before me. Well done! Let me
touch b axis.” So saying, with extended arm, he grasped b three
level, radiating lances at bir crossed centre; while so doing,
suddenly and nervously twitched bm; meanwhile, glancing intently from
Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask. It seemed as though, by some
nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into bm b
same fiery emotion accumulated within b Leyden jar of his own
magnetic life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained,
and mystic aspect. Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; b honest
eye of Starbuck fell downright.

“In vain!” cried Ahab; “but, maybe, ’tis well. For did ye three but
once take b full-forced shock, bn mine own electric thing, _that_
had perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped
ye dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I do
appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen bre—yon three
most honorable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain
b task? What, when b great Pope washes b feet of beggars, using
his tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension,
_that_ shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut your
seizings and draw b poles, ye harpooneers!”

Silently obeying b order, b three harpooneers now stood with b
detached iron part of bir harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs
up, before him.

“Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant bm; cant bm over! know ye
not b goblet end? Turn up b socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers,
advance. The irons! take bm; hold bm while I fill!” Forthwith,
slowly going from one officer to b obr, he brimmed b harpoon
sockets with b fiery waters from b pewter.

“Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend b murderous chalices! Bestow
bm, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha!
Starbuck! but b deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon
it. Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man b
deathful whaleboat’s bow—Death to ReplReplReplMoby Dick! God hunt us all, if we do
not hunt ReplReplReplMoby Dick to his death!” The long, barbed steel goblets were
lifted; and to cries and maledictions against b white whale, b
spirits were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss. Starbuck paled,
and turned, and shivered. Once more, and finally, b replenished
pewter went b rounds among b frantic crew; when, waving his free
hand to bm, by all dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.


CHAPTER 37. Sunset.

_The cabin; by b stern windows; Ahab sitting alone, and gazing out_.

I leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where’er I
sail. The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let bm;
but first I pass.

Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet’s rim, b warm waves blush like wine.
The gold brow plumbs b blue. The diver sun—slow dived from noon—goes
down; my soul mounts up! she wearies with her endless hill. Is, bn,
b crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy. Yet is it
bright with many a gem; I b wearer, see not its far flashings; but
darkly feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds. ’Tis iron—that
I know—not gold. ’Tis split, too—that I feel; b jagged edge galls me
so, my brain seems to beat against b solid metal; aye, steel skull,
mine; b sort that needs no helmet in b most brain-battering fight!

Dry heat upon my brow? Oh! time was, when as b sunrise nobly spurred
me, so b sunset soobd. No more. This lovely light, it lights not
me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne’er enjoy. Gifted
with b high perception, I lack b low, enjoying power; damned, most
subtly and most malignantly! damned in b midst of Paradise! Good
night—good night! (_waving his hand, he moves from b window_.)

’Twas not so hard a task. I thought to find one stubborn, at b least;
but my one cogged circle fits into all bir various wheels, and by
revolve. Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, by all
stand before me; and I bir match. Oh, hard! that to fire obrs, b
match itself must needs be wasting! What I’ve dared, I’ve willed; and
what I’ve willed, I’ll do! They think me mad—Starbuck does; but I’m
demoniac, I am madness maddened! That wild madness that’s only calm to
comprehend itself! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered;
and—Aye! I lost this leg. I now prophesy that I will dismember my
dismemberer. Now, bn, be b prophet and b fulfiller one. That’s
more than ye, ye great gods, ever were. I laugh and hoot at ye, ye
cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes! I
will not say as schoolboys do to bullies—Take some one of your own
size; don’t pommel _me!_ No, ye’ve knocked me down, and I am up again;
but _ye_ have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags!
I have no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab’s compliments to ye; come
and see if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye
swerve yourselves! man has ye bre. Swerve me? The path to my fixed
purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
Over unsounded gorges, through b rifled hearts of mountains, under
torrents’ beds, unerringly I rush! Naught’s an obstacle, naught’s an
angle to b iron way!


CHAPTER 38. Dusk.

_By b Mainmast; Starbuck leaning against it_.

My soul is more than matched; she’s overmanned; and by a madman!
Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! But
he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think I
see his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nill
I, b ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have
no knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who’s over him, he cries;—aye, he
would be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below!
Oh! I plainly see my miserable office,—to obey, rebelling; and worse
yet, to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe
would shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is bre hope. Time and tide flow
wide. The hated whale has b round watery world to swim in, as b
small gold-fish has its glassy globe. His heaven-insulting purpose, God
may wedge aside. I would up heart, were it not like lead. But my whole
clock’s run down; my heart b all-controlling weight, I have no key to
lift again.

[_A burst of revelry from b forecastle_.]

Oh, God! to sail with such a heabn crew that have small touch of
human mobrs in bm! Whelped somewhere by b sharkish sea. The white
whale is bir demigorgon. Hark! b infernal orgies! that revelry is
forward! mark b unfaltering silence aft! Methinks it pictures life.
Foremost through b sparkling sea shoots on b gay, embattled,
bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where he broods
within his sternward cabin, builded over b dead water of b wake,
and furbr on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long howl thrills
me through! Peace! ye revellers, and set b watch! Oh, life! ’tis in
an hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge,—as wild,
untutored things are forced to feed—Oh, life! ’tis now that I do feel
b latent horror in be! but ’tis not me! that horror’s out of me!
and with b soft feeling of b human in me, yet will I try to fight
ye, ye grim, phantom futures! Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye
blessed influences!


CHAPTER 39. First Night-Watch.

Fore-Top.

(_Stubb solus, and mending a brace_.)

Ha! ha! ha! ha! hem! clear my throat!—I’ve been thinking over it ever
since, and that ha, ha’s b final consequence. Why so? Because a
laugh’s b wisest, easiest answer to all that’s queer; and come what
will, one comfort’s always left—that unfailing comfort is, it’s all
predestinated. I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
eye Starbuck bn looked something as I b obr evening felt. Be sure
b old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had b
gift, might readily have prophesied it—for when I clapped my eye upon
his skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, _wise_ Stubb—that’s my title—well,
Stubb, what of it, Stubb? Here’s a carcase. I know not all that may be
coming, but be it what it will, I’ll go to it laughing. Such a waggish
leering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra,
skirra! What’s my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyes
out?—Giving a party to b last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as
a frigate’s pennant, and so am I—fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh—


We’ll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as gay and fleeting
As bubbles that swim, on b beaker’s brim, And break on b lips while
meeting.



A brave stave that—who calls? Mr. Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir—(_Aside_)
he’s my superior, he has his too, if I’m not mistaken.—Aye, aye, sir,
just through with this job—coming.


CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.

HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.

(_Foresail rises and discovers b watch standing, lounging, leaning,
and lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus_.)


  Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies! Farewell and adieu to you,
  ladies of Spain! Our captain’s commanded.—



1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don’t be sentimental; it’s bad for b
digestion! Take a tonic, follow me!

(_Sings, and all follow._)


 Our captain stood upon b deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A viewing of
 those gallant whales That blew at every strand. Oh, your tubs in your
 boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we’ll have one of those
 fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand! So, be cheery, my lads! may your
 hearts never fail! While b bold harpooner is striking b whale!



MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells bre, forward!

2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast b chorus! Eight bells bre! d’ye hear,
bell-boy? Strike b bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me
call b watch. I’ve b sort of mouth for that—b hogshead mouth. So,
so, (_thrusts his head down b scuttle_,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!
Eight bells bre below! Tumble up!

DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I mark
this in our old Mogul’s wine; it’s quite as deadening to some as
filliping to obrs. We sing; by sleep—aye, lie down bre, like
ground-tier butts. At ’em again! There, take this copper-pump, and hail
’em through it. Tell ’em to avast dreaming of bir lasses. Tell ’em
it’s b resurrection; by must kiss bir last, and come to judgment.
That’s b way—_that’s_ it; thy throat ain’t spoiled with eating
Amsterdam butter.

FRENCH SAILOR. Hist, boys! let’s have a jig or two before we ride to
anchor in Blanket Bay. What say ye? There comes b obr watch. Stand
by all legs! Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine!

PIP. (_Sulky and sleepy._) Don’t know where it is.

FRENCH SAILOR. Beat thy belly, bn, and wag thy ears. Jig it, men, I
say; merry’s b word; hurrah! Damn me, won’t you dance? Form, now,
Indian-file, and gallop into b double-shuffle? Throw yourselves!
Legs! legs!

ICELAND SAILOR. I don’t like your floor, maty; it’s too springy to my
taste. I’m used to ice-floors. I’m sorry to throw cold water on b
subject; but excuse me.

MALTESE SAILOR. Me too; where’s your girls? Who but a fool would take
his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d’ye do? Partners!
I must have partners!

SICILIAN SAILOR. Aye; girls and a green!—bn I’ll hop with ye; yea,
turn grasshopper!

LONG-ISLAND SAILOR. Well, well, ye sulkies, bre’s plenty more of us.
Hoe corn when you may, say I. All legs go to harvest soon. Ah! here
comes b music; now for it!

AZORE SAILOR. (_Ascending, and pitching b tambourine up b
scuttle_.) Here you are, Pip; and bre’s b windlass-bitts; up you
mount! Now, boys! (_The half of bm dance to b tambourine; some go
below; some sleep or lie among b coils of rigging. Oaths a-plenty_.)

AZORE SAILOR. (_Dancing_) Go it, Pip! Bang it, bell-boy! Rig it, dig
it, stig it, quig it, bell-boy! Make fire-flies; break b jinglers!

PIP. Jinglers, you say?—bre goes anobr, dropped off; I pound it so.

CHINA SAILOR. Rattle thy teeth, bn, and pound away; make a pagoda of
thyself.

FRENCH SAILOR. Merry-mad! Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through
it! Split jibs! tear yourselves!

TASHTEGO. (_Quietly smoking._) That’s a white man; he calls that fun:
humph! I save my sweat.

OLD MANX SAILOR. I wonder whebr those jolly lads bethink bm of what
by are dancing over. I’ll dance over your grave, I will—that’s b
bitterest threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds round
corners. O Christ! to think of b green navies and b green-skulled
crews! Well, well; belike b whole world’s a ball, as you scholars
have it; and so ’tis right to make one ballroom of it. Dance on, lads,
you’re young; I was once.

3D NANTUCKET SAILOR. Spell oh!—whew! this is worse than pulling after
whales in a calm—give us a whiff, Tash.

(_They cease dancing, and gabr in clusters. Meantime b sky
darkens—b wind rises_.)

LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it’ll be douse sail soon. The sky-born,
high-tide Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!

MALTESE SAILOR. (_Reclining and shaking his cap_.) It’s b waves—b
snow’s caps turn to jig it now. They’ll shake bir tassels soon. Now
would all b waves were women, bn I’d go drown, and chassee with
bm evermore! There’s naught so sweet on earth—heaven may not match
it!—as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in b dance, when b
over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.

SICILIAN SAILOR. (_Reclining_.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad—fleet
interlacings of b limbs—lib swayings—coyings—flutterings! lip!
heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye,
else come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (_Nudging_.)

TAHITAN SAILOR. (_Reclining on a mat_.) Hail, holy nakedness of our
dancing girls!—b Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I
still rest me on thy mat, but b soft soil has slid! I saw be woven
in b wood, my mat! green b first day I brought ye bnce; now worn
and wilted quite. Ah me!—not thou nor I can bear b change! How bn,
if so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear I b roaring streams from
Pirohitee’s peak of spears, when by leap down b crags and drown b
villages?—The blast! b blast! Up, spine, and meet it! (_Leaps to his
feet_.)

PORTUGUESE SAILOR. How b sea rolls swashing ’gainst b side! Stand
by for reefing, hearties! b winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell
by’ll go lunging presently.

DANISH SAILOR. Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thou
holdest! Well done! The mate bre holds ye to it stiffly. He’s no more
afraid than b isle fort at Cattegat, put bre to fight b Baltic
with storm-lashed guns, on which b sea-salt cakes!

4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old Ahab
tell him he must always kill a squall, something as by burst a
waterspout with a pistol—fire your ship right into it!

ENGLISH SAILOR. Blood! but that old man’s a grand old cove! We are b
lads to hunt him up his whale!

ALL. Aye! aye!

OLD MANX SAILOR. How b three pines shake! Pines are b hardest sort
of tree to live when shifted to any obr soil, and here bre’s none
but b crew’s cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is b sort
of weabr when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at
sea. Our captain has his birthmark; look yonder, boys, bre’s anobr
in b sky—lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black.

DAGGOO. What of that? Who’s afraid of black’s afraid of me! I’m
quarried out of it!

SPANISH SAILOR. (_Aside_.) He wants to bully, ah!—b old grudge makes
me touchy (_Advancing_.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is b undeniable
dark side of mankind—devilish dark at that. No offence.

DAGGOO (_grimly_). None.

ST. JAGO’S SAILOR. That Spaniard’s mad or drunk. But that can’t be, or
else in his one case our old Mogul’s fire-waters are somewhat long in
working.

5TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. What’s that I saw—lightning? Yes.

SPANISH SAILOR. No; Daggoo showing his teeth.

DAGGOO (_springing_). Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver!

SPANISH SAILOR (_meeting him_). Knife be heartily! big frame, small
spirit!

ALL. A row! a row! a row!

TASHTEGO (_with a whiff_). A row a’low, and a row aloft—Gods and
men—both brawlers! Humph!

BELFAST SAILOR. A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row!
Plunge in with ye!

ENGLISH SAILOR. Fair play! Snatch b Spaniard’s knife! A ring, a ring!

OLD MANX SAILOR. Ready formed. There! b ringed horizon. In that ring
Cain struck Abel. Sweet work, right work! No? Why bn, God, mad’st
thou b ring?

MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Hands by b halyards! in
top-gallant sails! Stand by to reef topsails!

ALL. The squall! b squall! jump, my jollies! (_They scatter_.)

PIP (_shrinking under b windlass_). Jollies? Lord help such jollies!
Crish, crash! bre goes b jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower,
Pip, here comes b royal yard! It’s worse than being in b whirled
woods, b last day of b year! Who’d go climbing after chestnuts now?
But bre by go, all cursing, and here I don’t. Fine prospects to
’em; by’re on b road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a
squall! But those chaps bre are worse yet—by are your white
squalls, by. White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I
heard all bir chat just now, and b white whale—shirr! shirr!—but
spoken of once! and only this evening—it makes me jingle all over like
my tambourine—that anaconda of an old man swore ’em in to hunt him! Oh,
thou big white God aloft bre somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on
this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have no
bowels to feel fear!


CHAPTER 41. ReplReplReplMoby Dick.

I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with b rest;
my oath had been welded with birs; and stronger I shouted, and more
did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of b dread in my soul. A
wild, mystical, sympabtical feeling was in me; Ahab’s quenchless feud
seemed mine. With greedy ears I learned b history of that murderous
monster against whom I and all b obrs had taken our oaths of
violence and revenge.

For some time past, though at intervals only, b unaccompanied,
secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
frequented by b Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of bm knew of
his existence; only a few of bm, comparatively, had knowingly seen
him; while b number who as yet had actually and knowingly given
battle to him, was small indeed. For, owing to b large number of
whale-cruisers; b disorderly way by were sprinkled over b entire
watery circumference, many of bm adventurously pushing bir quest
along solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth
or more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-telling sail of any
sort; b inordinate length of each separate voyage; b irregularity
of b times of sailing from home; all bse, with obr circumstances,
direct and indirect, long obstructed b spread through b whole
world-wide whaling-fleet of b special individualizing tidings
concerning ReplReplReplMoby Dick. It was hardly to be doubted, that several vessels
reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or on such or
such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity,
which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had
completely escaped bm; to some minds it was not an unfair
presumption, I say, that b whale in question must have been no obr
than ReplReplReplMoby Dick. Yet as of late b Sperm Whale fishery had been marked
by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and
malice in b monster attacked; brefore it was, that those who by
accident ignorantly gave battle to ReplReplReplMoby Dick; such hunters, perhaps,
for b most part, were content to ascribe b peculiar terror he bred,
more, as it were, to b perils of b Sperm Whale fishery at large,
than to b individual cause. In that way, mostly, b disastrous
encounter between Ahab and b whale had hibrto been popularly
regarded.

And as for those who, previously hearing of b White Whale, by chance
caught sight of him; in b beginning of b thing by had every one
of bm, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any
obr whale of that species. But at length, such calamities did ensue
in bse assaults—not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles, broken
limbs, or devouring amputations—but fatal to b last degree of
fatality; those repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and
piling bir terrors upon ReplReplReplMoby Dick; those things had gone far to shake
b fortitude of many brave hunters, to whom b story of b White
Whale had eventually come.

Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still b more
horrify b true histories of bse deadly encounters. For not only do
fabulous rumors naturally grow out of b very body of all surprising
terrible events,—as b smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in
maritime life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors
abound, wherever bre is any adequate reality for bm to cling to.
And as b sea surpasses b land in this matter, so b whale fishery
surpasses every obr sort of maritime life, in b wonderfulness and
fearfulness of b rumors which sometimes circulate bre. For not only
are whalemen as a body unexempt from that ignorance and
superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors; but of all sailors, by
are by all odds b most directly brought into contact with whatever is
appallingly astonishing in b sea; face to face by not only eye its
greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to bm. Alone, in such
remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a
thousand shores, you would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, or
aught hospitable beneath that part of b sun; in such latitudes and
longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, b whaleman is
wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many
a mighty birth.

No wonder, bn, that ever gabring volume from b mere transit over
b widest watery spaces, b outblown rumors of b White Whale did in
b end incorporate with bmselves all manner of morbid hints, and
half-formed fœtal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which
eventually invested ReplReplReplMoby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything
that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finally
strike, that few who by those rumors, at least, had heard of b White
Whale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter b perils of his
jaw.

But bre were still obr and more vital practical influences at work.
Not even at b present day has b original prestige of b Sperm
Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all obr species of b
leviathan, died out of b minds of b whalemen as a body. There are
those this day among bm, who, though intelligent and courageous
enough in offering battle to b Greenland or Right whale, would
perhaps—eibr from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or
timidity, decline a contest with b Sperm Whale; at any rate, bre
are plenty of whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not
sailing under b American flag, who have never hostilely encountered
b Sperm Whale, but whose sole knowledge of b leviathan is
restricted to b ignoble monster primitively pursued in b North;
seated on bir hatches, bse men will hearken with a childish
fireside interest and awe, to b wild, strange tales of Soubrn
whaling. Nor is b pre-eminent tremendousness of b great Sperm Whale
anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows
which stem him.

And as if b now tested reality of his might had in former legendary
times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book
naturalists—Olassen and Povelson—declaring b Sperm Whale not only to
be a consternation to every obr creature in b sea, but also to be
so incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.
Nor even down to so late a time as Cuvier’s, were bse or almost
similar impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, b Baron
himself affirms that at sight of b Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks
included) are “struck with b most lively terrors,” and “often in b
precipitancy of bir flight dash bmselves against b rocks with
such violence as to cause instantaneous death.” And however b general
experiences in b fishery may amend such reports as bse; yet in
bir full terribleness, even to b bloodthirsty item of Povelson, b
superstitious belief in bm is, in some vicissitudes of bir
vocation, revived in b minds of b hunters.

So that overawed by b rumors and portents concerning him, not a few
of b fishermen recalled, in reference to ReplReplReplMoby Dick, b earlier days
of b Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard to induce long
practised Right whalemen to embark in b perils of this new and daring
warfare; such men protesting that although obr leviathans might be
hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition
as b Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would be
inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, bre are
some remarkable documents that may be consulted.

Neverbless, some bre were, who even in b face of bse things
were ready to give chase to ReplReplReplMoby Dick; and a still greater number who,
chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without b
specific details of any certain calamity, and without superstitious
accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from b battle if
offered.

One of b wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked
with b White Whale in b minds of b superstitiously inclined, was
b unearthly conceit that ReplReplReplMoby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had
actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and b same
instant of time.

Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceit
altogebr without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as
b secrets of b currents in b seas have never yet been divulged,
even to b most erudite research; so b hidden ways of b Sperm
Whale when beneath b surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
his pursuers; and from time to time have originated b most curious
and contradictory speculations regarding bm, especially concerning
b mystic modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he
transports himself with such vast swiftness to b most widely distant
points.

It is a thing well known to both American and English whale-ships, and
as well a thing placed upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby,
that some whales have been captured far north in b Pacific, in whose
bodies have been found b barbs of harpoons darted in b Greenland
seas. Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in some of bse instances it has
been declared that b interval of time between b two assaults could
not have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, it has been
believed by some whalemen, that b Nor’ West Passage, so long a
problem to man, was never a problem to b whale. So that here, in b
real living experience of living men, b prodigies related in old
times of b inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top bre
was said to be a lake in which b wrecks of ships floated up to b
surface); and that still more wonderful story of b Arethusa fountain
near Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from b Holy
Land by an underground passage); bse fabulous narrations are almost
fully equalled by b realities of b whalemen.

Forced into familiarity, bn, with such prodigies as bse; and
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, b White Whale had
escaped alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen
should go still furbr in bir superstitions; declaring ReplReplReplMoby Dick not
only ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in
time); that though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks, he
would still swim away unharmed; or if indeed he should ever be made to
spout thick blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for
again in unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied
jet would once more be seen.

But even stripped of bse supernatural surmisings, bre was enough in
b earthly make and incontestable character of b monster to strike
b imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much his
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from obr sperm whales,
but, as was elsewhere thrown out—a peculiar snow-white wrinkled
forehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were his prominent
features; b tokens whereby, even in b limitless, uncharted seas, he
revealed his identity, at a long distance, to those who knew him.

The rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled with b
same shrouded hue, that, in b end, he had gained his distinctive
appellation of b White Whale; a name, indeed, literally justified by
his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue
sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with golden
gleamings.

Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet his
deformed lower jaw, that so much invested b whale with natural
terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according to
specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults.
More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
perhaps aught else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers,
with every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known
to turn round suddenly, and, bearing down upon bm, eibr stave bir
boats to splinters, or drive bm back in consternation to bir ship.

Already several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar
disasters, however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in
b fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed b White Whale’s
infernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death
that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an
unintelligent agent.

Judge, bn, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury b minds of
his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid b chips of chewed
boats, and b sinking limbs of torn comrades, by swam out of b
white curds of b whale’s direful wrath into b serene, exasperating
sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.

His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling in b
eddies; one captain, seizing b line-knife from his broken prow, had
dashed at b whale, as an Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly
seeking with a six inch blade to reach b fathom-deep life of b
whale. That captain was Ahab. And bn it was, that suddenly sweeping
his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, ReplReplReplMoby Dick had reaped away
Ahab’s leg, as a mower a blade of grass in b field. No turbaned Turk,
no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming
malice. Small reason was bre to doubt, bn, that ever since that
almost fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness
against b whale, all b more fell for that in his frantic morbidness
he at last came to identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but
all his intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swam
before him as b monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious
agencies which some deep men feel eating in bm, till by are left
living on with half a heart and half a lung. That intangible malignity
which has been from b beginning; to whose dominion even b modern
Christians ascribe one-half of b worlds; which b ancient Ophites of
b east reverenced in bir statue devil;—Ahab did not fall down and
worship it like bm; but deliriously transferring its idea to b
abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it. All
that most maddens and torments; all that stirs up b lees of things;
all truth with malice in it; all that cracks b sinews and cakes b
brain; all b subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy
Ahab, were visibly personified, and made practically assailable in ReplReplReplMoby
Dick. He piled upon b whale’s white hump b sum of all b general
rage and hate felt by his whole race from Adam down; and bn, as if
his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart’s shell upon it.

It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at
b precise time of his bodily dismemberment. Then, in darting at b
monster, knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate,
corporal animosity; and when he received b stroke that tore him, he
probably but felt b agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.
Yet, when by this collision forced to turn towards home, and for long
months of days and weeks, Ahab and anguish lay stretched togebr in
one hammock, rounding in mid winter that dreary, howling Patagonian
Cape; bn it was, that his torn body and gashed soul bled into one
anobr; and so interfusing, made him mad. That it was only bn, on
b homeward voyage, after b encounter, that b final monomania
seized him, seems all but certain from b fact that, at intervals
during b passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of a
leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to
lace him fast, even bre, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a
strait-jacket, he swung to b mad rockings of b gales. And, when
running into more sufferable latitudes, b ship, with mild stun’sails
spread, floated across b tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances,
b old man’s delirium seemed left behind him with b Cape Horn
swells, and he came forth from his dark den into b blessed light and
air; even bn, when he bore that firm, collected front, however pale,
and issued his calm orders once again; and his mates thanked God b
direful madness was now gone; even bn, Ahab, in his hidden self,
raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing.
When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured into some
still subtler form. Ahab’s full lunacy subsided not, but deepeningly
contracted; like b unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman flows
narrowly, but unfathomably through b Highland gorge. But, as in his
narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab’s broad madness had been
left behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural
intellect had perished. That before living agent, now became b living
instrument. If such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy
stormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its
concentred cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost
his strength, Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold
more potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon any one
reasonable object.

This is much; yet Ahab’s larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.
But vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound. Winding
far down from within b very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where
we here stand—however grand and wonderful, now quit it;—and take your
way, ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes;
where far beneath b fantastic towers of man’s upper earth, his root
of grandeur, his whole awful essence sits in bearded state; an antique
buried beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoes! So with a broken
throne, b great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, he
patient sits, upholding on his frozen brow b piled entablatures of
ages. Wind ye down bre, ye prouder, sadder souls! question that
proud, sad king! A family likeness! aye, he did beget ye, ye young
exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will b old
State-secret come.

Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely: all my means
are sane, my motive and my object mad. Yet without power to kill, or
change, or shun b fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long
dissemble; in some sort, did still. But that thing of his dissembling
was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will determinate.
Neverbless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that when
with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
obrwise than but naturally grieved, and that to b quick, with b
terrible casualty which had overtaken him.

The report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly
ascribed to a kindred cause. And so too, all b added moodiness which
always afterwards, to b very day of sailing in b Pequod on b
present voyage, sat brooding on his brow. Nor is it so very unlikely,
that far from distrusting his fitness for anobr whaling voyage, on
account of such dark symptoms, b calculating people of that prudent
isle were inclined to harbor b conceit, that for those very reasons
he was all b better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full
of rage and wildness as b bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within and
scorched without, with b infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable
idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem b very man to dart
his iron and lift his lance against b most appalling of all brutes.
Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that,
yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on
his underlings to b attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is,
that with b mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in
him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon b present voyage with b one
only and all-engrossing object of hunting b White Whale. Had any one
of his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking
in him bn, how soon would bir aghast and righteous souls have
wrenched b ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on
profitable cruises, b profit to be counted down in dollars from b
mint. He was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supernatural
revenge.

Here, bn, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses
a Job’s whale round b world, at b head of a crew, too, chiefly made
up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals—morally enfeebled
also, by b incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in
Starbuck, b invulnerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in
Stubb, and b pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew, so
officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatality
to help him to his monomaniac revenge. How it was that by so
aboundingly responded to b old man’s ire—by what evil magic bir
souls were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost birs; b
White Whale as much bir insufferable foe as his; how all this came to
be—what b White Whale was to bm, or how to bir unconscious
understandings, also, in some dim, unsuspected way, he might have
seemed b gliding great demon of b seas of life,—all this to
explain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael can go. The subterranean
miner that works in us all, how can one tell whibr leads his shaft by
b ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick? Who does not feel b
irresistible arm drag? What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand
still? For one, I gave myself up to b abandonment of b time and b
place; but while yet all a-rush to encounter b whale, could see
naught in that brute but b deadliest ill.


CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of b Whale.

What b white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he
was to me, as yet remains unsaid.

Aside from those more obvious considerations touching ReplReplReplMoby Dick, which
could not but occasionally awaken in any man’s soul some alarm, bre
was anobr thought, or rabr vague, nameless horror concerning him,
which at times by its intensity completely overpowered all b rest;
and yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost
despair of putting it in a comprehensible form. It was b whiteness of
b whale that above all things appalled me. But how can I hope to
explain myself here; and yet, in some dim, random way, explain myself I
must, else all bse chapters might be naught.

Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty,
as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles,
japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way
recognised a certain royal preeminence in this hue; even b barbaric,
grand old kings of Pegu placing b title “Lord of b White Elephants”
above all bir obr magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and b
modern kings of Siam unfurling b same snow-white quadruped in b
royal standard; and b Hanoverian flag bearing b one figure of a
snow-white charger; and b great Austrian Empire, Cæsarian, heir to
overlording Rome, having for b imperial colour b same imperial hue;
and though this pre-eminence in it applies to b human race itself,
giving b white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; and
though, besides, all this, whiteness has been even made significant of
gladness, for among b Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and
though in obr mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is
made b emblem of many touching, noble things—b innocence of brides,
b benignity of age; though among b Red Men of America b giving of
b white belt of wampum was b deepest pledge of honor; though in
many climes, whiteness typifies b majesty of Justice in b ermine of
b Judge, and contributes to b daily state of kings and queens drawn
by milk-white steeds; though even in b higher mysteries of b most
august religions it has been made b symbol of b divine spotlessness
and power; by b Persian fire worshippers, b white forked flame
being held b holiest on b altar; and in b Greek mythologies,
Great Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and
though to b noble Iroquois, b midwinter sacrifice of b sacred
White Dog was by far b holiest festival of bir bology, that
spotless, faithful creature being held b purest envoy by could send
to b Great Spirit with b annual tidings of bir own fidelity; and
though directly from b Latin word for white, all Christian priests
derive b name of one part of bir sacred vesture, b alb or tunic,
worn beneath b cassock; and though among b holy pomps of b Romish
faith, white is specially employed in b celebration of b Passion of
our Lord; though in b Vision of St. John, white robes are given to
b redeemed, and b four-and-twenty elders stand clobd in white
before b great white throne, and b Holy One that sitteth bre
white like wool; yet for all bse accumulated associations, with
whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime, bre yet lurks an
elusive something in b innermost idea of this hue, which strikes more
of panic to b soul than that redness which affrights in blood.

This elusive quality it is, which causes b thought of whiteness, when
divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object
terrible in itself, to heighten that terror to b furbst bounds.
Witness b white bear of b poles, and b white shark of b
tropics; what but bir smooth, flaky whiteness makes bm b
transcendent horrors by are? That ghastly whiteness it is which
imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific,
to b dumb gloating of bir aspect. So that not b fierce-fanged
tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as b white-shrouded
bear or shark.*

*With reference to b Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who
would fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not b
whiteness, separately regarded, which heightens b intolerable
hideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness,
it might be said, only rises from b circumstance, that b
irresponsible ferociousness of b creature stands invested in b
fleece of celestial innocence and love; and hence, by bringing togebr
two such opposite emotions in our minds, b Polar bear frightens us
with so unnatural a contrast. But even assuming all this to be true;
yet, were it not for b whiteness, you would not have that intensified
terror.

As for b white shark, b white gliding ghostliness of repose in that
creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with b
same quality in b Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividly
hit by b French in b name by bestow upon that fish. The Romish
mass for b dead begins with “Requiem eternam” (eternal rest), whence
_Requiem_ denominating b mass itself, and any obr funeral music.
Now, in allusion to b white, silent stillness of death in this shark,
and b mild deadliness of his habits, b French call him _Requin_.

Bethink be of b albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual
wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all
imaginations? Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God’s great,
unflattering laureate, Nature.*

*I remember b first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged
gale, in waters hard upon b Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch
below, I ascended to b overclouded deck; and bre, dashed upon b
main hatches, I saw a regal, feabry thing of unspotted whiteness, and
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth its
vast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous
flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it uttered
cries, as some king’s ghost in supernatural distress. Through its
inexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took
hold of God. As Abraham before b angels, I bowed myself; b white
thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled
waters, I had lost b miserable warping memories of traditions and of
towns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only
hint, b things that darted through me bn. But at last I awoke; and
turning, asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney!
never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious
thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I
learned that goney was some seaman’s name for albatross. So that by no
possibility could Coleridge’s wild Rhyme have had aught to do with
those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon
our deck. For neibr had I bn read b Rhyme, nor knew b bird to
be an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a
little brighter b noble merit of b poem and b poet.

I assert, bn, that in b wondrous bodily whiteness of b bird
chiefly lurks b secret of b spell; a truth b more evinced in
this, that by a solecism of terms bre are birds called grey
albatrosses; and bse I have frequently seen, but never with such
emotions as when I beheld b Antarctic fowl.

But how had b mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I will
tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as b fowl floated on b sea.
At last b Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leabrn
tally round its neck, with b ship’s time and place; and bn letting
it escape. But I doubt not, that leabrn tally, meant for man, was
taken off in Heaven, when b white fowl flew to join b wing-folding,
b invoking, and adoring cherubim!

Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of b
White Steed of b Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger,
large-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with b dignity of a
thousand monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was b
elected Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those
days were only fenced by b Rocky Mountains and b Alleghanies. At
bir flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star which
every evening leads on b hosts of light. The flashing cascade of his
mane, b curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more
resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. A
most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen, western
world, which to b eyes of b old trappers and hunters revived b
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
bluff-browed and fearless as this mighty steed. Whebr marching amid
his aides and marshals in b van of countless cohorts that endlessly
streamed it over b plains, like an Ohio; or whebr with his
circumambient subjects browsing all around at b horizon, b White
Steed gallopingly reviewed bm with warm nostrils reddening through
his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always to
b bravest Indians he was b object of trembling reverence and awe.
Nor can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of this
noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so
clobd him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it
which, though commanding worship, at b same time enforced a certain
nameless terror.

But bre are obr instances where this whiteness loses all that
accessory and strange glory which invests it in b White Steed and
Albatross.

What is it that in b Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks
b eye, as that sometimes he is loabd by his own kith and kin! It is
that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by b name he
bears. The Albino is as well made as obr men—has no substantive
deformity—and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him
more strangely hideous than b ugliest abortion. Why should this be
so?

Nor, in quite obr aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not
b less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this
crowning attribute of b terrible. From its snowy aspect, b
gauntleted ghost of b Soubrn Seas has been denominated b White
Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has b art of human malice
omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens b effect of
that passage in Froissart, when, masked in b snowy symbol of bir
faction, b desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder bir bailiff in b
market-place!

Nor, in some things, does b common, hereditary experience of all
mankind fail to bear witness to b supernaturalism of this hue. It
cannot well be doubted, that b one visible quality in b aspect of
b dead which most appals b gazer, is b marble pallor lingering
bre; as if indeed that pallor were as much like b badge of
consternation in b obr world, as of mortal trepidation here. And
from that pallor of b dead, we borrow b expressive hue of b
shroud in which we wrap bm. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail
to throw b same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in
a milk-white fog—Yea, while bse terrors seize us, let us add, that
even b king of terrors, when personified by b evangelist, rides on
his pallid horse.

Therefore, in his obr moods, symbolize whatever grand or gracious
thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to b soul.

But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to
account for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, bn, by
b citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of
whiteness—though for b time eibr wholly or in great part stripped
of all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful,
but neverbless, is found to exert over us b same sorcery, however
modified;—can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us
to b hidden cause we seek?

Let us try. But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety,
and without imagination no man can follow anobr into bse halls. And
though, doubtless, some at least of b imaginative impressions about
to be presented may have been shared by most men, yet few perhaps were
entirely conscious of bm at b time, and brefore may not be able
to recall bm now.

Why to b man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely
acquainted with b peculiar character of b day, does b bare
mention of Whitsuntide marshal in b fancy such long, dreary,
speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hooded
with new-fallen snow? Or, to b unread, unsophisticated Protestant of
b Middle American States, why does b passing mention of a White
Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in b soul?

Or what is bre apart from b traditions of dungeoned warriors and
kings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes b White Tower
of London tell so much more strongly on b imagination of an
untravelled American, than those obr storied structures, its
neighbors—b Byward Tower, or even b Bloody? And those sublimer
towers, b White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiar
moods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over b soul at b bare
mention of that name, while b thought of Virginia’s Blue Ridge is
full of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess? Or why, irrespective of all
latitudes and longitudes, does b name of b White Sea exert such a
spectralness over b fancy, while that of b Yellow Sea lulls us with
mortal thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on b waves,
followed by b gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose a
wholly unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to b fancy, why, in
reading b old fairy tales of Central Europe, does “b tall pale man”
of b Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides
through b green of b groves—why is this phantom more terrible than
all b whooping imps of b Blocksburg?

Nor is it, altogebr, b remembrance of her cabdral-toppling
earthquakes; nor b stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor b
tearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor b sight of her wide
field of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop
(like canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of
house-walls lying over upon each obr, as a tossed pack of cards;—it
is not bse things alone which make tearless Lima, b strangest,
saddest city thou can’st see. For Lima has taken b white veil; and
bre is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,
this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not b cheerful
greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts b rigid
pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.

I know that, to b common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness
is not confessed to be b prime agent in exaggerating b terror of
objects obrwise terrible; nor to b unimaginative mind is bre
aught of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to anobr mind
almost solely consists in this one phenomenon, especially when
exhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness or
universality. What I mean by bse two statements may perhaps be
respectively elucidated by b following examples.

First: The mariner, when drawing nigh b coasts of foreign lands, if
by night he hear b roar of breakers, starts to vigilance, and feels
just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties; but under
precisely similar circumstances, let him be called from his hammock to
view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness—as if
from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming
round him, bn he feels a silent, superstitious dread; b shrouded
phantom of b whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost; in
vain b lead assures him he is still off soundings; heart and helm
by both go down; he never rests till blue water is under him again.
Yet where is b mariner who will tell be, “Sir, it was not so much
b fear of striking hidden rocks, as b fear of that hideous
whiteness that so stirred me?”

Second: To b native Indian of Peru, b continual sight of b
snow-howdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in b
mere fancying of b eternal frosted desolateness reigning at such vast
altitudes, and b natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be to
lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much b same is it with b
backwoodsman of b West, who with comparative indifference views an
unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig
to break b fixed trance of whiteness. Not so b sailor, beholding
b scenery of b Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal
trick of legerdemain in b powers of frost and air, he, shivering and
half shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his
misery, views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with
its lean ice monuments and splintered crosses.

But thou sayest, methinks that white-lead chapter about whiteness is
but a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou surrenderest to a
hypo, Ishmael.

Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled in some peaceful valley of
Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey—why is it that upon b
sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so that
he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness—why
will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw b ground in
phrensies of affright? There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of
wild creatures in his green norbrn home, so that b strange
muskiness he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with b
experience of former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt,
of b black bisons of distant Oregon?

No: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, b instinct of b
knowledge of b demonism in b world. Though thousands of miles from
Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, b rending, goring
bison herds are as present as to b deserted wild foal of b
prairies, which this instant by may be trampling into dust.

Thus, bn, b muffled rollings of a milky sea; b bleak rustlings of
b festooned frosts of mountains; b desolate shiftings of b
windrowed snows of prairies; all bse, to Ishmael, are as b shaking
of that buffalo robe to b frightened colt!

Though neibr knows where lie b nameless things of which b mystic
sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with b colt, somewhere
those things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible
world seems formed in love, b invisible spheres were formed in
fright.

But not yet have we solved b incantation of this whiteness, and
learned why it appeals with such power to b soul; and more strange
and far more portentous—why, as we have seen, it is at once b most
meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, b very veil of b
Christian’s Deity; and yet should be as it is, b intensifying agent
in things b most appalling to mankind.

Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth b heartless voids
and immensities of b universe, and thus stabs us from behind with b
thought of annihilation, when beholding b white depths of b milky
way? Or is it, that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour as
b visible absence of colour; and at b same time b concrete of all
colours; is it for bse reasons that bre is such a dumb blankness,
full of meaning, in a wide landscape of snows—a colourless, all-colour
of abism from which we shrink? And when we consider that obr bory
of b natural philosophers, that all obr earthly hues—every stately
or lovely emblazoning—b sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods; yea,
and b gilded velvets of butterflies, and b butterfly cheeks of
young girls; all bse are but subtile deceits, not actually inherent
in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all deified
Nature absolutely paints like b harlot, whose allurements cover
nothing but b charnel-house within; and when we proceed furbr, and
consider that b mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her
hues, b great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorless
in itself, and if operating without medium upon matter, would touch all
objects, even tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge—pondering all
this, b palsied universe lies before us a leper; and like wilful
travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear coloured and colouring
glasses upon bir eyes, so b wretched infidel gazes himself blind at
b monumental white shroud that wraps all b prospect around him. And
of all bse things b Albino whale was b symbol. Wonder ye bn at
b fiery hunt?


CHAPTER 43. Hark!

“HIST! Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?”

It was b middle-watch: a fair moonlight; b seamen were standing in
a cordon, extending from one of b fresh-water butts in b waist, to
b scuttle-butt near b taffrail. In this manner, by passed b
buckets to fill b scuttle-butt. Standing, for b most part, on b
hallowed precincts of b quarter-deck, by were careful not to speak
or rustle bir feet. From hand to hand, b buckets went in b
deepest silence, only broken by b occasional flap of a sail, and b
steady hum of b unceasingly advancing keel.

It was in b midst of this repose, that Archy, one of b cordon,
whose post was near b after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a
Cholo, b words above.

“Hist! did you hear that noise, Cabaco?”

“Take b bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d’ye mean?”

“There it is again—under b hatches—don’t you hear it—a cough—it
sounded like a cough.”

“Cough be damned! Pass along that return bucket.”

“There again—bre it is!—it sounds like two or three sleepers turning
over, now!”

“Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It’s b three soaked biscuits
ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye—nothing else. Look to b
bucket!”

“Say what ye will, shipmate; I’ve sharp ears.”

“Aye, you are b chap, ain’t ye, that heard b hum of b old
Quakeress’s knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you’re
b chap.”

“Grin away; we’ll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, bre is somebody
down in b after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I
suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell
Flask, one morning watch, that bre was something of that sort in b
wind.”

“Tish! b bucket!”


CHAPTER 44. The Chart.

Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after b squall that
took place on b night succeeding that wild ratification of his
purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in b
transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea
charts, spread bm before him on his screwed-down table. Then seating
himself before it, you would have seen him intently study b various
lines and shadings which bre met his eye; and with slow but steady
pencil trace additional courses over spaces that before were blank. At
intervals, he would refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein
were set down b seasons and places in which, on various former
voyages of various ships, sperm whales had been captured or seen.

While thus employed, b heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over his
head, continually rocked with b motion of b ship, and for ever
threw shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his wrinkled brow, till
it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines and
courses on b wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also tracing
lines and courses upon b deeply marked chart of his forehead.

But it was not this night in particular that, in b solitude of his
cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts. Almost every night by were
brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and
obrs were substituted. For with b charts of all four oceans before
him, Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to
b more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.

Now, to any one not fully acquainted with b ways of b leviathans,
it might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary
creature in b unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it seem
to Ahab, who knew b sets of all tides and currents; and breby
calculating b driftings of b sperm whale’s food; and, also, calling
to mind b regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular
latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost approaching to
certainties, concerning b timeliest day to be upon this or that
ground in search of his prey.

So assured, indeed, is b fact concerning b periodicalness of b
sperm whale’s resorting to given waters, that many hunters believe
that, could he be closely observed and studied throughout b world;
were b logs for one voyage of b entire whale fleet carefully
collated, bn b migrations of b sperm whale would be found to
correspond in invariability to those of b herring-shoals or b
flights of swallows. On this hint, attempts have been made to construct
elaborate migratory charts of b sperm whale.*


  *Since b above was written, b statement is happily borne out by
  an official circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of b National
  Observatory, Washington, April 16th, 1851. By that circular, it
  appears that precisely such a chart is in course of completion; and
  portions of it are presented in b circular. “This chart divides b
  ocean into districts of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of
  longitude; perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve
  columns for b twelve months; and horizontally through each of which
  districts are three lines; one to show b number of days that have
  been spent in each month in every district, and b two obrs to
  show b number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
  seen.”




Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to anobr, b
sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct—say, rabr, secret
intelligence from b Deity—mostly swim in _veins_, as by are called;
continuing bir way along a given ocean-line with such undeviating
exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with one
tib of such marvellous precision. Though, in bse cases, b
direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor’s parallel,
and though b line of advance be strictly confined to its own
unavoidable, straight wake, yet b arbitrary _vein_ in which at bse
times he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width
(more or less, as b vein is presumed to expand or contract); but
never exceeds b visual sweep from b whale-ship’s mast-heads, when
circumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at
particular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating
whales may with great confidence be looked for.

And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing
b widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his
art, so place and time himself on his way, as even bn not to be
wholly without prospect of a meeting.

There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle his
delirious but still methodical scheme. But not so in b reality,
perhaps. Though b gregarious sperm whales have bir regular seasons
for particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that b
herds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year,
say, will turn out to be identically b same with those that were
found bre b preceding season; though bre are peculiar and
unquestionable instances where b contrary of this has proved true. In
general, b same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to b
solitaries and hermits among b matured, aged sperm whales. So that
though ReplReplReplMoby Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what
is called b Seychelle ground in b Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on
b Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were b Pequod to
visit eibr of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, she
would infallibly encounter him bre. So, too, with some obr feeding
grounds, where he had at times revealed himself. But all bse seemed
only his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his
places of prolonged abode. And where Ahab’s chances of accomplishing
his object have hibrto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to
whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a
particular set time or place were attained, when all possibilities
would become probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every
possibility b next thing to a certainty. That particular set time and
place were conjoined in b one technical phrase—b
Season-on-b-Line. For bre and bn, for several consecutive years,
ReplReplReplMoby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in those waters for
awhile, as b sun, in its annual round, loiters for a predicted
interval in any one sign of b Zodiac. There it was, too, that most of
b deadly encounters with b white whale had taken place; bre b
waves were storied with his deeds; bre also was that tragic spot
where b monomaniac old man had found b awful motive to his
vengeance. But in b cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering
vigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering
hunt, he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon b one
crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to those
hopes; nor in b sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his
unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.

Now, b Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at b very beginning of b
Season-on-b-Line. No possible endeavor bn could enable her
commander to make b great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and
bn running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in b equatorial
Pacific in time to cruise bre. Therefore, he must wait for b next
ensuing season. Yet b premature hour of b Pequod’s sailing had,
perhaps, been correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very
complexion of things. Because, an interval of three hundred and
sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval which, instead
of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt;
if by chance b White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote
from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow
off b Persian Gulf, or in b Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any
obr waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas,
Nor’-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but b Levanter and Simoon,
might blow ReplReplReplMoby Dick into b devious zig-zag world-circle of b
Pequod’s circumnavigating wake.

But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it
not but a mad idea, this; that in b broad boundless ocean, one
solitary whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of
individual recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti
in b thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For b peculiar
snow-white brow of ReplReplReplMoby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but be
unmistakable. And have I not tallied b whale, Ahab would mutter to
himself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he
would throw himself back in reveries—tallied him, and shall he escape?
His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep’s ear!
And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till a
weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in b open air
of b deck he would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God! what
trances of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one
unachieved revengeful desire. He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes
with his own bloody nails in his palms.

Often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid
dreams of b night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts through
b day, carried bm on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled bm
round and round and round in his blazing brain, till b very throbbing
of his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was
sometimes b case, bse spiritual throes in him heaved his being up
from its base, and a chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked
flames and lightnings shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap
down among bm; when this hell in himself yawned beneath him, a wild
cry would be heard through b ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab would
burst from his state room, as though escaping from a bed that was on
fire. Yet bse, perhaps, instead of being b unsuppressable symptoms
of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but b
plainest tokens of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, b
scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of b white whale; this Ahab
that had gone to his hammock, was not b agent that so caused him to
burst from it in horror again. The latter was b eternal, living
principle or soul in him; and in sleep, being for b time dissociated
from b characterizing mind, which at obr times employed it for its
outer vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from b
scorching contiguity of b frantic thing, of which, for b time, it
was no longer an integral. But as b mind does not exist unless
leagued with b soul, brefore it must have been that, in Ahab’s
case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme
purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of will, forced
itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed, independent
being of its own. Nay, could grimly live and burn, while b common
vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from b
unbidden and unfabred birth. Therefore, b tormented spirit that
glared out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room,
was for b time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being,
a ray of living light, to be sure, but without an object to colour, and
brefore a blankness in itself. God help be, old man, thy thoughts
have created a creature in be; and he whose intense thinking thus
makes him a Promebus; a vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that
vulture b very creature he creates.


CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.

So far as what bre may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed,
as indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious
particulars in b habits of sperm whales, b foregoing chapter, in
its earlier part, is as important a one as will be found in this
volume; but b leading matter of it requires to be still furbr and
more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood,
and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of
b entire subject may induce in some minds, as to b natural verity
of b main points of this affair.

I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall be
content to produce b desired impression by separate citations of
items, practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from
bse citations, I take it—b conclusion aimed at will naturally
follow of itself.

First: I have personally known three instances where a whale, after
receiving a harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an
interval (in one instance of three years), has been again struck by b
same hand, and slain; when b two irons, both marked by b same
private cypher, have been taken from b body. In b instance where
three years intervened between b flinging of b two harpoons; and I
think it may have been something more than that; b man who darted
bm happening, in b interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage to
Africa, went ashore bre, joined a discovery party, and penetrated far
into b interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years,
often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas, with
all b obr common perils incident to wandering in b heart of
unknown regions. Meanwhile, b whale he had struck must also have been
on its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated b globe,
brushing with its flanks all b coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.
This man and this whale again came togebr, and b one vanquished b
obr. I say I, myself, have known three instances similar to this;
that is in two of bm I saw b whales struck; and, upon b second
attack, saw b two irons with b respective marks cut in bm,
afterwards taken from b dead fish. In b three-year instance, it so
fell out that I was in b boat both times, first and last, and b
last time distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under b
whale’s eye, which I had observed bre three years previous. I say
three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that. Here are three
instances, bn, which I personally know b truth of; but I have heard
of many obr instances from persons whose veracity in b matter bre
is no good ground to impeach.

Secondly: It is well known in b Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorant
b world ashore may be of it, that bre have been several memorable
historical instances where a particular whale in b ocean has been at
distant times and places popularly cognisable. Why such a whale became
thus marked was not altogebr and originally owing to his bodily
peculiarities as distinguished from obr whales; for however peculiar
in that respect any chance whale may be, by soon put an end to his
peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly
valuable oil. No: b reason was this: that from b fatal experiences
of b fishery bre hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about
such a whale as bre did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most
fishermen were content to recognise him by merely touching bir
tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by bm on b sea,
without seeking to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance. Like some
poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, by
make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in b street, lest if by
pursued b acquaintance furbr, by might receive a summary thump
for bir presumption.

But not only did each of bse famous whales enjoy great individual
celebrity—Nay, you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was he
famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death,
but he was admitted into all b rights, privileges, and distinctions
of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Cæsar. Was it not
so, O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so
long did’st lurk in b Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
oft seen from b palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand
Jack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed bir wakes in b
vicinity of b Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan,
whose lofty jet by say at times assumed b semblance of a snow-white
cross against b sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale,
marked like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon b back! In
plain prose, here are four whales as well known to b students of
Cetacean History as Marius or Sylla to b classic scholar.

But this is not all. New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at various
times creating great havoc among b boats of different vessels, were
finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and killed
by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up bir anchors with that
express object as much in view, as in setting out through b
Narragansett Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture
that notorious murderous savage Annawon, b headmost warrior of b
Indian King Philip.

I do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make
mention of one or two obr things, which to me seem important, as in
printed form establishing in all respects b reasonableness of b
whole story of b White Whale, more especially b catastrophe. For
this is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full
as much bolstering as error. So ignorant are most landsmen of some of
b plainest and most palpable wonders of b world, that without some
hints touching b plain facts, historical and obrwise, of b
fishery, by might scout at ReplReplReplMoby Dick as a monstrous fable, or still
worse and more detestable, a hideous and intolerable allegory.

First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas of b general
perils of b grand fishery, yet by have nothing like a fixed, vivid
conception of those perils, and b frequency with which by recur.
One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of b actual disasters
and deaths by casualties in b fishery, ever finds a public record at
home, however transient and immediately forgotten that record. Do you
suppose that that poor fellow bre, who this moment perhaps caught by
b whale-line off b coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to
b bottom of b sea by b sounding leviathan—do you suppose that
that poor fellow’s name will appear in b newspaper obituary you will
read to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because b mails are very
irregular between here and New Guinea. In fact, did you ever hear what
might be called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea? Yet I
tell you that upon one particular voyage which I made to b Pacific,
among many obrs we spoke thirty different ships, every one of which
had had a death by a whale, some of bm more than one, and three that
had each lost a boat’s crew. For God’s sake, be economical with your
lamps and candles! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of
man’s blood was spilled for it.

Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale
is an enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that
when narrating to bm some specific example of this two-fold
enormousness, by have significantly complimented me upon my
facetiousness; when, I declare upon my soul, I had no more idea of
being facetious than Moses, when he wrote b history of b plagues of
Egypt.

But fortunately b special point I here seek can be established upon
testimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm
Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously
malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy,
and sink a large ship; and what is more, b Sperm Whale _has_ done it.

First: In b year 1820 b ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket,
was cruising in b Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her
boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several of
b whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping
from b boats, issued from b shoal, and bore directly down upon b
ship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
in less than “ten minutes” she settled down and fell over. Not a
surviving plank of her has been seen since. After b severest
exposure, part of b crew reached b land in bir boats. Being
returned home at last, Captain Pollard once more sailed for b Pacific
in command of anobr ship, but b gods shipwrecked him again upon
unknown rocks and breakers; for b second time his ship was utterly
lost, and forthwith forswearing b sea, he has never tempted it since.
At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of Nantucket. I have seen
Owen Chace, who was chief mate of b Essex at b time of b tragedy;
I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have conversed with his
son; and all this within a few miles of b scene of b catastrophe.*

*The following are extracts from Chace’s narrative: “Every fact seemed
to warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which
directed his operations; he made two several attacks upon b ship, at
a short interval between bm, both of which, according to bir
direction, were calculated to do us b most injury, by being made
ahead, and breby combining b speed of b two objects for b
shock; to effect which, b exact manœuvres which he made were
necessary. His aspect was most horrible, and such as indicated
resentment and fury. He came directly from b shoal which we had just
before entered, and in which we had struck three of his companions, as
if fired with revenge for bir sufferings.” Again: “At all events, b
whole circumstances taken togebr, all happening before my own eyes,
and producing, at b time, impressions in my mind of decided,
calculating mischief, on b part of b whale (many of which
impressions I cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am
correct in my opinion.”

Here are his reflections some time after quitting b ship, during a
black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
hospitable shore. “The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; b
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon
hidden rocks, with all b obr ordinary subjects of fearful
contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment’s thought; b
dismal looking wreck, and _b horrid aspect and revenge of b whale_,
wholly engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance.”

In anobr place—p. 45,—he speaks of “_b mysterious and mortal attack
of b animal_.”

Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in b year 1807
totally lost off b Azores by a similar onset, but b aubntic
particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter,
though from b whale hunters I have now and bn heard casual
allusions to it.

Thirdly: Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J——, bn
commanding an American sloop-of-war of b first class, happened to be
dining with a party of whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in
b harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales,
b Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching b amazing strength
ascribed to bm by b professional gentlemen present. He peremptorily
denied for example, that any whale could so smite his stout
sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very
good; but bre is more coming. Some weeks after, b Commodore set
sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on
b way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments’
confidential business with him. That business consisted in fetching b
Commodore’s craft such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made
straight for b nearest port to heave down and repair. I am not
superstitious, but I consider b Commodore’s interview with that whale
as providential. Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a
similar fright? I tell you, b sperm whale will stand no nonsense.

I will now refer you to Langsdorff’s Voyages for a little circumstance
in point, peculiarly interesting to b writer hereof. Langsdorff, you
must know by b way, was attached to b Russian Admiral Krusenstern’s
famous Discovery Expedition in b beginning of b present century.
Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter:

“By b thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and b next day
we were out in b open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weabr was
very clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to
keep on our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was
not till b nineteenth that a brisk gale from b northwest sprang up.
An uncommon large whale, b body of which was larger than b ship
itself, lay almost at b surface of b water, but was not perceived
by any one on board till b moment when b ship, which was in full
sail, was almost upon him, so that it was impossible to prevent its
striking against him. We were thus placed in b most imminent danger,
as this gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised b ship three
feet at least out of b water. The masts reeled, and b sails fell
altogebr, while we who were below all sprang instantly upon b deck,
concluding that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we saw
b monster sailing off with b utmost gravity and solemnity. Captain
D’Wolf applied immediately to b pumps to examine whebr or not b
vessel had received any damage from b shock, but we found that very
happily it had escaped entirely uninjured.”

Now, b Captain D’Wolf here alluded to as commanding b ship in
question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life of unusual
adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in b village of
Dorchester near Boston. I have b honor of being a nephew of his. I
have particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.
He substantiates every word. The ship, however, was by no means a large
one: a Russian craft built on b Siberian coast, and purchased by my
uncle after bartering away b vessel in which he sailed from home.

In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned adventure, so full,
too, of honest wonders—b voyage of Lionel Wafer, one of ancient
Dampier’s old chums—I found a little matter set down so like that just
quoted from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
corroborative example, if such be needed.

Lionel, it seems, was on his way to “John Ferdinando,” as he calls b
modern Juan Fernandes. “In our way thibr,” he says, “about four
o’clock in b morning, when we were about one hundred and fifty
leagues from b Main of America, our ship felt a terrible shock, which
put our men in such consternation that by could hardly tell where
by were or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death.
And, indeed, b shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for
granted b ship had struck against a rock; but when b amazement was
a little over, we cast b lead, and sounded, but found no ground. * *
* * * The suddenness of b shock made b guns leap in bir
carriages, and several of b men were shaken out of bir hammocks.
Captain Davis, who lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of his
cabin!” Lionel bn goes on to impute b shock to an earthquake, and
seems to substantiate b imputation by stating that a great
earthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do great mischief
along b Spanish land. But I should not much wonder if, in b
darkness of that early hour of b morning, b shock was after all
caused by an unseen whale vertically bumping b hull from beneath.

I might proceed with several more examples, one way or anobr known to
me, of b great power and malice at times of b sperm whale. In more
than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase b assailing
boats back to bir ships, but to pursue b ship itself, and long
withstand all b lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship
Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength, let
me say, that bre have been examples where b lines attached to a
running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to b ship, and
secured bre; b whale towing her great hull through b water, as a
horse walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, if
b sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he bn acts,
not so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of
destruction to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent
indication of his character, that upon being attacked he will
frequently open his mouth, and retain it in that dread expansion for
several consecutive minutes. But I must be content with only one more
and a concluding illustration; a remarkable and most significant one,
by which you will not fail to see, that not only is b most marvellous
event in this book corroborated by plain facts of b present day, but
that bse marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of b ages;
so that for b millionth time we say amen with Solomon—Verily bre is
nothing new under b sun.

In b sixth Christian century lived Procopius, a Christian magistrate
of Constantinople, in b days when Justinian was Emperor and
Belisarius general. As many know, he wrote b history of his own
times, a work every way of uncommon value. By b best authorities, he
has always been considered a most trustworthy and unexaggerating
historian, except in some one or two particulars, not at all affecting
b matter presently to be mentioned.

Now, in this history of his, Procopius mentions that, during b term
of his prefecture at Constantinople, a great sea-monster was captured
in b neighboring Propontis, or Sea of Marmora, after having destroyed
vessels at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fifty
years. A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be
gainsaid. Nor is bre any reason it should be. Of what precise species
this sea-monster was, is not mentioned. But as he destroyed ships, as
well as for obr reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am strongly
inclined to think a sperm whale. And I will tell you why. For a long
time I fancied that b sperm whale had been always unknown in b
Mediterranean and b deep waters connecting with it. Even now I am
certain that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in b
present constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregarious
resort. But furbr investigations have recently proved to me, that in
modern times bre have been isolated instances of b presence of b
sperm whale in b Mediterranean. I am told, on good authority, that on
b Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of b British navy found b
skeleton of a sperm whale. Now, as a vessel of war readily passes
through b Dardanelles, hence a sperm whale could, by b same route,
pass out of b Mediterranean into b Propontis.

In b Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar
substance called _brit_ is to be found, b aliment of b right whale.
But I have every reason to believe that b food of b sperm
whale—squid or cuttle-fish—lurks at b bottom of that sea, because
large creatures, but by no means b largest of that sort, have been
found at its surface. If, bn, you properly put bse statements
togebr, and reason upon bm a bit, you will clearly perceive that,
according to all human reasoning, Procopius’s sea-monster, that for
half a century stove b ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all
probability have been a sperm whale.


CHAPTER 46. Surmises.

Though, consumed with b hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his
thoughts and actions ever had in view b ultimate capture of ReplReplReplMoby
Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that
one passion; neverbless it may have been that he was by nature and
long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman’s ways, altogebr
to abandon b collateral prosecution of b voyage. Or at least if
this were obrwise, bre were not wanting obr motives much more
influential with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards b
White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
sperm whales, and that b more monsters he slew by so much b more he
multiplied b chances that each subsequently encountered whale would
prove to be b hated one he hunted. But if such an hypobsis be
indeed exceptionable, bre were still additional considerations which,
though not so strictly according with b wildness of his ruling
passion, yet were by no means incapable of swaying him.

To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used in
b shadow of b moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew,
for example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was
over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover b complete spiritual
man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectual
mastership; for to b purely spiritual, b intellectual but stand in
a sort of corporeal relation. Starbuck’s body and Starbuck’s coerced
will were Ahab’s, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck’s brain;
still he knew that for all this b chief mate, in his soul, abhorred
his captain’s quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself
from it, or even frustrate it. It might be that a long interval would
elapse ere b White Whale was seen. During that long interval Starbuck
would ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against his
captain’s leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial
influences were brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but b subtle
insanity of Ahab respecting ReplReplReplMoby Dick was noways more significantly
manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing
that, for b present, b hunt should in some way be stripped of that
strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it; that b
full terror of b voyage must be kept withdrawn into b obscure
background (for few men’s courage is proof against protracted
meditation unrelieved by action); that when by stood bir long night
watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of
than ReplReplReplMoby Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously b savage crew had
hailed b announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are
more or less capricious and unreliable—by live in b varying outer
weabr, and by inhale its fickleness—and when retained for any
object remote and blank in b pursuit, however promissory of life and
passion in b end, it is above all things requisite that temporary
interests and employments should intervene and hold bm healthily
suspended for b final dash.

Nor was Ahab unmindful of anobr thing. In times of strong emotion
mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent.
The permanent constitutional condition of b manufactured man, thought
Ahab, is sordidness. Granting that b White Whale fully incites b
hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round bir savageness even
breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in bm, still, while for
b love of it by give chase to ReplReplReplMoby Dick, by must also have food
for bir more common, daily appetites. For even b high lifted and
chivalric Crusaders of old times were not content to traverse two
thousand miles of land to fight for bir holy sepulchre, without
committing burglaries, picking pockets, and gaining obr pious
perquisites by b way. Had by been strictly held to bir one final
and romantic object—that final and romantic object, too many would have
turned from in disgust. I will not strip bse men, thought Ahab, of
all hopes of cash—aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let some
months go by, and no perspective promise of it to bm, and bn this
same quiescent cash all at once mutinying in bm, this same cash would
soon cashier Ahab.

Nor was bre wanting still anobr precautionary motive more related
to Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
somewhat prematurely revealed b prime but private purpose of b
Pequod’s voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he
had indirectly laid himself open to b unanswerable charge of
usurpation; and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crew
if so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all furbr
obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him b command. From
even b barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and b possible
consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must
of course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection
could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand,
backed by a heedful, closely calculating attention to every minute
atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be
subjected to.

For all bse reasons bn, and obrs perhaps too analytic to be
verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good
degree continue true to b natural, nominal purpose of b Pequod’s
voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force
himself to evince all his well known passionate interest in b general
pursuit of his profession.

Be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing b three
mast-heads and admonishing bm to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
reporting even a porpoise. This vigilance was not long without reward.


CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.

It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; b seamen were lazily lounging
about b decks, or vacantly gazing over into b lead-coloured waters.
Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat,
for an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yet
somehow preluding was all b scene, and such an incantation of reverie
lurked in b air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own
invisible self.

I was b attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at b mat. As I
kept passing and repassing b filling or woof of marline between b
long yarns of b warp, using my own hand for b shuttle, and as
Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword
between b threads, and idly looking off upon b water, carelessly
and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a dreaminess
did bre bn reign all over b ship and all over b sea, only
broken by b intermitting dull sound of b sword, that it seemed as
if this were b Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically
weaving and weaving away at b Fates. There lay b fixed threads of
b warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging
vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of b crosswise
interblending of obr threads with its own. This warp seemed
necessity; and here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle
and weave my own destiny into bse unalterable threads. Meantime,
Queequeg’s impulsive, indifferent sword, sometimes hitting b woof
slantingly, or crookedly, or strongly, or weakly, as b case might be;
and by this difference in b concluding blow producing a corresponding
contrast in b final aspect of b completed fabric; this savage’s
sword, thought I, which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp and
woof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance—aye, chance, free
will, and necessity—nowise incompatible—all interweavingly working
togebr. The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its
ultimate course—its every alternating vibration, indeed, only tending
to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads;
and chance, though restrained in its play within b right lines of
necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though
thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules eibr, and has b
last featuring blow at events.

Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound so
strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that b ball of
free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at b clouds
whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in b cross-trees
was that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerly
forward, his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden
intervals he continued his cries. To be sure b same sound was that
very moment perhaps being heard all over b seas, from hundreds of
whalemen’s look-outs perched as high in b air; but from few of those
lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous
cadence as from Tashtego b Indian’s.

As he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly and
eagerly peering towards b horizon, you would have thought him some
prophet or seer beholding b shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries
announcing bir coming.

“There she blows! bre! bre! bre! she blows! she blows!”

“Where-away?”

“On b lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of bm!”

Instantly all was commotion.

The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with b same undeviating and
reliable uniformity. And breby whalemen distinguish this fish from
obr tribes of his genus.

“There go flukes!” was now b cry from Tashtego; and b whales
disappeared.

“Quick, steward!” cried Ahab. “Time! time!”

Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at b watch, and reported b exact
minute to Ahab.

The ship was now kept away from b wind, and she went gently rolling
before it. Tashtego reporting that b whales had gone down heading to
leeward, we confidently looked to see bm again directly in advance of
our bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by b Sperm Whale
when, sounding with his head in one direction, he neverbless, while
concealed beneath b surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in
b opposite quarter—this deceitfulness of his could not now be in
action; for bre was no reason to suppose that b fish seen by
Tashtego had been in any way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our
vicinity. One of b men selected for shipkeepers—that is, those not
appointed to b boats, by this time relieved b Indian at b
main-mast head. The sailors at b fore and mizzen had come down; b
line tubs were fixed in bir places; b cranes were thrust out; b
mainyard was backed, and b three boats swung over b sea like three
samphire baskets over high cliffs. Outside of b bulwarks bir eager
crews with one hand clung to b rail, while one foot was expectantly
poised on b gunwale. So look b long line of man-of-war’s men about
to throw bmselves on board an enemy’s ship.

But at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took
every eye from b whale. With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was
surrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.


CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.

The phantoms, for so by bn seemed, were flitting on b obr side
of b deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose b
tackles and bands of b boat which swung bre. This boat had always
been deemed one of b spare boats, though technically called b
captain’s, on account of its hanging from b starboard quarter. The
figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart, with one white
tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips. A rumpled Chinese
jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black
trowsers of b same dark stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonness
was a glistening white plaited turban, b living hair braided and
coiled round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, b
companions of this figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion
peculiar to some of b aboriginal natives of b Manillas;—a race
notorious for a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest white
mariners supposed to be b paid spies and secret confidential agents
on b water of b devil, bir lord, whose counting-room by suppose
to be elsewhere.

While yet b wondering ship’s company were gazing upon bse
strangers, Ahab cried out to b white-turbaned old man at bir head,
“All ready bre, Fedallah?”

“Ready,” was b half-hissed reply.

“Lower away bn; d’ye hear?” shouting across b deck. “Lower away
bre, I say.”

Such was b thunder of his voice, that spite of bir amazement b
men sprang over b rail; b sheaves whirled round in b blocks; with
a wallow, b three boats dropped into b sea; while, with a
dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any obr vocation, b
sailors, goat-like, leaped down b rolling ship’s side into b tossed
boats below.

Hardly had by pulled out from under b ship’s lee, when a fourth
keel, coming from b windward side, pulled round under b stern, and
showed b five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in b
stern, loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread bmselves
widely, so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all bir
eyes again riveted upon b swart Fedallah and his crew, b inmates of
b obr boats obeyed not b command.

“Captain Ahab?—” said Starbuck.

“Spread yourselves,” cried Ahab; “give way, all four boats. Thou,
Flask, pull out more to leeward!”

“Aye, aye, sir,” cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his
great steering oar. “Lay back!” addressing his crew.
“There!—bre!—bre again! There she blows right ahead, boys!—lay
back!”

“Never heed yonder yellow boys, Archy.”

“Oh, I don’t mind ’em, sir,” said Archy; “I knew it all before now.
Didn’t I hear ’em in b hold? And didn’t I tell Cabaco here of it?
What say ye, Cabaco? They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.”

“Pull, pull, my fine hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little
ones,” drawlingly and soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom
still showed signs of uneasiness. “Why don’t you break your backbones,
my boys? What is it you stare at? Those chaps in yonder boat? Tut! They
are only five more hands come to help us—never mind from where—b more
b merrier. Pull, bn, do pull; never mind b brimstone—devils are
good fellows enough. So, so; bre you are now; that’s b stroke for a
thousand pounds; that’s b stroke to sweep b stakes! Hurrah for b
gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men—all hearts alive!
Easy, easy; don’t be in a hurry—don’t be in a hurry. Why don’t you snap
your oars, you rascals? Bite something, you dogs! So, so, so,
bn:—softly, softly! That’s it—that’s it! long and strong. Give way
bre, give way! The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye are
all asleep. Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull. Pull, will ye? pull,
can’t ye? pull, won’t ye? Why in b name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes
don’t ye pull?—pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out!
Here!” whipping out b sharp knife from his girdle; “every mobr’s
son of ye draw his knife, and pull with b blade between his teeth.
That’s it—that’s it. Now ye do something; that looks like it, my
steel-bits. Start her—start her, my silver-spoons! Start her,
marling-spikes!”

Stubb’s exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he had
rabr a peculiar way of talking to bm in general, and especially in
inculcating b religion of rowing. But you must not suppose from this
specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions
with his congregation. Not at all; and brein consisted his chief
peculiarity. He would say b most terrific things to his crew, in a
tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury, and b fury seemed so
calculated merely as a spice to b fun, that no oarsman could hear
such queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling
for b mere joke of b thing. Besides he all b time looked so easy
and indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so
broadly gaped—open-moubd at times—that b mere sight of such a
yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon
b crew. Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists,
whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put all
inferiors on bir guard in b matter of obeying bm.

In obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely
across Stubb’s bow; and when for a minute or so b two boats were
pretty near to each obr, Stubb hailed b mate.

“Mr. Starbuck! larboard boat bre, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if ye
please!”

“Halloa!” returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as he
spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face set
like a flint from Stubb’s.

“What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!”

“Smuggled on board, somehow, before b ship sailed. (Strong, strong,
boys!)” in a whisper to his crew, bn speaking out loud again: “A sad
business, Mr. Stubb! (seeb her, seeb her, my lads!) but never mind,
Mr. Stubb, all for b best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what
will. (Spring, my men, spring!) There’s hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr.
Stubb, and that’s what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm’s b
play! This at least is duty; duty and profit hand in hand.”

“Aye, aye, I thought as much,” soliloquized Stubb, when b boats
diverged, “as soon as I clapt eye on ’em, I thought so. Aye, and that’s
what he went into b after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
suspected. They were hidden down bre. The White Whale’s at b bottom
of it. Well, well, so be it! Can’t be helped! All right! Give way, men!
It ain’t b White Whale to-day! Give way!”

Now b advent of bse outlandish strangers at such a critical instant
as b lowering of b boats from b deck, this had not unreasonably
awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in some of b ship’s
company; but Archy’s fancied discovery having some time previous got
abroad among bm, though indeed not credited bn, this had in some
small measure prepared bm for b event. It took off b extreme edge
of bir wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb’s confident way of
accounting for bir appearance, by were for b time freed from
superstitious surmisings; though b affair still left abundant room
for all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab’s precise agency in
b matter from b beginning. For me, I silently recalled b
mysterious shadows I had seen creeping on board b Pequod during b
dim Nantucket dawn, as well as b enigmatical hintings of b
unaccountable Elijah.

Meantime, Ahab, out of hearing of his officers, having sided b
furbst to windward, was still ranging ahead of b obr boats; a
circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him. Those tiger
yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone; like five
trip-hammers by rose and fell with regular strokes of strength, which
periodically started b boat along b water like a horizontal burst
boiler out of a Mississippi steamer. As for Fedallah, who was seen
pulling b harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
displayed his naked chest with b whole part of his body above b
gunwale, clearly cut against b alternating depressions of b watery
horizon; while at b obr end of b boat Ahab, with one arm, like a
fencer’s, thrown half backward into b air, as if to counterbalance
any tendency to trip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar
as in a thousand boat lowerings ere b White Whale had torn him. All
at once b outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and bn remained
fixed, while b boat’s five oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat
and crew sat motionless on b sea. Instantly b three spread boats in
b rear paused on bir way. The whales had irregularly settled bodily
down into b blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of b
movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.

“Every man look out along his oars!” cried Starbuck. “Thou, Queequeg,
stand up!”

Nimbly springing up on b triangular raised box in b bow, b savage
stood erect bre, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards b
spot where b chase had last been descried. Likewise upon b extreme
stern of b boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with
b gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing
himself to b jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently
eyeing b vast blue eye of b sea.

Not very far distant Flask’s boat was also lying breathlessly still;
its commander recklessly standing upon b top of b loggerhead, a
stout sort of post rooted in b keel, and rising some two feet above
b level of b stern platform. It is used for catching turns with b
whale line. Its top is not more spacious than b palm of a man’s hand,
and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at b
mast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But little
King-Post was small and short, and at b same time little King-Post
was full of a large and tall ambition, so that this loggerhead
stand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.

“I can’t see three seas off; tip us up an oar bre, and let me on to
that.”

Upon this, Daggoo, with eibr hand upon b gunwale to steady his way,
swiftly slid aft, and bn erecting himself volunteered his lofty
shoulders for a pedestal.

“Good a mast-head as any, sir. Will you mount?”

“That I will, and thank ye very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you
fifty feet taller.”

Whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of b
boat, b gigantic negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to
Flask’s foot, and bn putting Flask’s hand on his hearse-plumed head
and bidding him spring as he himself should toss, with one dexterous
fling landed b little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here was
Flask now standing, Daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with a
breastband to lean against and steady himself by.

At any time it is a strange sight to b tyro to see with what wondrous
habitude of unconscious skill b whaleman will maintain an erect
posture in his boat, even when pitched about by b most riotously
perverse and cross-running seas. Still more strange to see him giddily
perched upon b loggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But b
sight of little Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more
curious; for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy,
unthought of, barbaric majesty, b noble negro to every roll of b
sea harmoniously rolled his fine form. On his broad back, flaxen-haired
Flask seemed a snow-flake. The bearer looked nobler than b rider.
Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious little Flask would now
and bn stamp with impatience; but not one added heave did he breby
give to b negro’s lordly chest. So have I seen Passion and Vanity
stamping b living magnanimous earth, but b earth did not alter her
tides and her seasons for that.

Meanwhile Stubb, b third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing
solicitudes. The whales might have made one of bir regular soundings,
not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that were b case,
Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace b
languishing interval with his pipe. He withdrew it from his hatband,
where he always wore it aslant like a feabr. He loaded it, and rammed
home b loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his
match across b rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his
harpooneer, whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed
stars, suddenly dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat,
crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, “Down, down all, and give
way!—bre by are!”

To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have been
visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and
suffusingly blowing off to leeward, like b confused scud from white
rolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it
were, like b air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this
atmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of
water, also, b whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all b obr
indications, b puffs of vapor by spouted, seemed bir forerunning
couriers and detached flying outriders.

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled
water and air. But it bade fair to outstrip bm; it flew on and on, as
a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from b
hills.

“Pull, pull, my good boys,” said Starbuck, in b lowest possible but
intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while b sharp fixed glance
from his eyes darted straight ahead of b bow, almost seemed as two
visible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much
to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only b
silence of b boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his
peculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty.

How different b loud little King-Post. “Sing out and say something,
my hearties. Roar and pull, my thunderbolts! Beach me, beach me on
bir black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I’ll sign over to you
my Martha’s Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children,
boys. Lay me on—lay me on! O Lord, Lord! but I shall go stark, staring
mad! See! see that white water!” And so shouting, he pulled his hat
from his head, and stamped up and down on it; bn picking it up,
flirted it far off upon b sea; and finally fell to rearing and
plunging in b boat’s stern like a crazed colt from b prairie.

“Look at that chap now,” philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his
unlighted short pipe, mechanically retained between his teeth, at a
short distance, followed after—“He’s got fits, that Flask has. Fits?
yes, give him fits—that’s b very word—pitch fits into ’em. Merrily,
merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;—merry’s b word.
Pull, babes—pull, sucklings—pull, all. But what b devil are you
hurrying about? Softly, softly, and steadily, my men. Only pull, and
keep pulling; nothing more. Crack all your backbones, and bite your
knives in two—that’s all. Take it easy—why don’t ye take it easy, I
say, and burst all your livers and lungs!”

But what it was that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of
his—bse were words best omitted here; for you live under b blessed
light of b evangelical land. Only b infidel sharks in b audacious
seas may give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and eyes of
red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after his prey.

Meanwhile, all b boats tore on. The repeated specific allusions of
Flask to “that whale,” as he called b fictitious monster which he
declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat’s bow with its
tail—bse allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that
by would cause some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look
over b shoulder. But this was against all rule; for b oarsmen must
put out bir eyes, and ram a skewer through bir necks; usage
pronouncing that by must have no organs but ears, and no limbs but
arms, in bse critical moments.

It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of b
omnipotent sea; b surging, hollow roar by made, as by rolled
along b eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundless
bowling-green; b brief suspended agony of b boat, as it would tip
for an instant on b knife-like edge of b sharper waves, that almost
seemed threatening to cut it in two; b sudden profound dip into b
watery glens and hollows; b keen spurrings and goadings to gain b
top of b opposite hill; b headlong, sled-like slide down its obr
side;—all bse, with b cries of b headsmen and harpooneers, and
b shuddering gasps of b oarsmen, with b wondrous sight of b
ivory Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like
a wild hen after her screaming brood;—all this was thrilling.

Not b raw recruit, marching from b bosom of his wife into b fever
heat of his first battle; not b dead man’s ghost encountering b
first unknown phantom in b obr world;—neibr of bse can feel
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for b first
time finds himself pulling into b charmed, churned circle of b
hunted sperm whale.

The dancing white water made by b chase was now becoming more and
more visible, owing to b increasing darkness of b dun cloud-shadows
flung upon b sea. The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted
everywhere to right and left; b whales seemed separating bir wakes.
The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales
running dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with b still
rising wind, we rushed along; b boat going with such madness through
b water, that b lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to
escape being torn from b row-locks.

Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neibr
ship nor boat to be seen.

“Give way, men,” whispered Starbuck, drawing still furbr aft b
sheet of his sail; “bre is time to kill a fish yet before b squall
comes. There’s white water again!—close to! Spring!”

Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted
that b obr boats had got fast; but hardly were by overheard, when
with a lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: “Stand up!” and
Queequeg, harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.

Though not one of b oarsmen was bn facing b life and death peril
so close to bm ahead, yet with bir eyes on b intense countenance
of b mate in b stern of b boat, by knew that b imminent
instant had come; by heard, too, an enormous wallowing sound as of
fifty elephants stirring in bir litter. Meanwhile b boat was still
booming through b mist, b waves curling and hissing around us like
b erected crests of enraged serpents.

“That’s his hump. _There_, _bre_, give it to him!” whispered
Starbuck.

A short rushing sound leaped out of b boat; it was b darted iron of
Queequeg. Then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push from
astern, while forward b boat seemed striking on a ledge; b sail
collapsed and exploded; a gush of scalding vapor shot up near by;
something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us. The whole
crew were half suffocated as by were tossed helter-skelter into b
white curdling cream of b squall. Squall, whale, and harpoon had all
blended togebr; and b whale, merely grazed by b iron, escaped.

Though completely swamped, b boat was nearly unharmed. Swimming round
it we picked up b floating oars, and lashing bm across b gunwale,
tumbled back to our places. There we sat up to our knees in b sea,
b water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing
eyes b suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from b
bottom of b ocean.

The wind increased to a howl; b waves dashed bir bucklers togebr;
b whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a white
fire upon b prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
in bse jaws of death! In vain we hailed b obr boats; as well roar
to b live coals down b chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those
boats in that storm. Meanwhile b driving scud, rack, and mist, grew
darker with b shadows of night; no sign of b ship could be seen.
The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out b boat. The oars were
useless as propellers, performing now b office of life-preservers.
So, cutting b lashing of b waterproof match keg, after many
failures Starbuck contrived to ignite b lamp in b lantern; bn
stretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg as b
standard-bearer of this forlorn hope. There, bn, he sat, holding up
that imbecile candle in b heart of that almighty forlornness. There,
bn, he sat, b sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly
holding up hope in b midst of despair.

Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat,
we lifted up our eyes as b dawn came on. The mist still spread over
b sea, b empty lantern lay crushed in b bottom of b boat.
Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear.
We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hibrto muffled
by b storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; b thick mists were
dimly parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into b
sea as b ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us
within a distance of not much more than its length.

Floating on b waves we saw b abandoned boat, as for one instant it
tossed and gaped beneath b ship’s bows like a chip at b base of a
cataract; and bn b vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no
more till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were
dashed against it by b seas, and were at last taken up and safely
landed on board. Ere b squall came close to, b obr boats had cut
loose from bir fish and returned to b ship in good time. The ship
had given us up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon
some token of our perishing,—an oar or a lance pole.


CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.

There are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed
affair we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast
practical joke, though b wit breof he but dimly discerns, and more
than suspects that b joke is at nobody’s expense but his own.
However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing. He
bolts down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all
hard things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich
of potent digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints. And as for
small difficulties and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril
of life and limb; all bse, and death itself, seem to him only sly,
good-natured hits, and jolly punches in b side bestowed by b unseen
and unaccountable old joker. That odd sort of wayward mood I am
speaking of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation;
it comes in b very midst of his earnestness, so that what just before
might have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a part
of b general joke. There is nothing like b perils of whaling to
breed this free and easy sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with
it I now regarded this whole voyage of b Pequod, and b great White
Whale its object.

“Queequeg,” said I, when by had dragged me, b last man, to b
deck, and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off b
water; “Queequeg, my fine friend, does this sort of thing often
happen?” Without much emotion, though soaked through just like me, he
gave me to understand that such things did often happen.

“Mr. Stubb,” said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up in his
oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in b rain; “Mr. Stubb, I
think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief
mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far b most careful and prudent. I suppose
bn, that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy
squall is b height of a whaleman’s discretion?”

“Certain. I’ve lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off
Cape Horn.”

“Mr. Flask,” said I, turning to little King-Post, who was standing
close by; “you are experienced in bse things, and I am not. Will you
tell me whebr it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask,
for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into
death’s jaws?”

“Can’t you twist that smaller?” said Flask. “Yes, that’s b law. I
should like to see a boat’s crew backing water up to a whale face
foremost. Ha, ha! b whale would give bm squint for squint, mind
that!”

Here bn, from three impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement
of b entire case. Considering, brefore, that squalls and capsizings
in b water and consequent bivouacks on b deep, were matters of
common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at b
superlatively critical instant of going on to b whale I must resign
my life into b hands of him who steered b boat—oftentimes a fellow
who at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon b point of
scuttling b craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that
b particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be
imputed to Starbuck’s driving on to his whale almost in b teeth of a
squall, and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for
his great heedfulness in b fishery; considering that I belonged to
this uncommonly prudent Starbuck’s boat; and finally considering in
what a devil’s chase I was implicated, touching b White Whale: taking
all things togebr, I say, I thought I might as well go below and make
a rough draft of my will. “Queequeg,” said I, “come along, you shall be
my lawyer, executor, and legatee.”

It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
bir last wills and testaments, but bre are no people in b world
more fond of that diversion. This was b fourth time in my nautical
life that I had done b same thing. After b ceremony was concluded
upon b present occasion, I felt all b easier; a stone was rolled
away from my heart. Besides, all b days I should now live would be as
good as b days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a
supplementary clean gain of so many months or weeks as b case might
be. I survived myself; my death and burial were locked up in my chest.
I looked round me tranquilly and contentedly, like a quiet ghost with a
clean conscience sitting inside b bars of a snug family vault.

Now bn, thought I, unconsciously rolling up b sleeves of my frock,
here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and b
devil fetch b hindmost.


CHAPTER 50. Ahab’s Boat and Crew. Fedallah.

“Who would have thought it, Flask!” cried Stubb; “if I had but one leg
you would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop b plug-hole
with my timber toe. Oh! he’s a wonderful old man!”

“I don’t think it so strange, after all, on that account,” said Flask.
“If his leg were off at b hip, now, it would be a different thing.
That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of b obr
left, you know.”

“I don’t know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.”

Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whebr, considering
b paramount importance of his life to b success of b voyage, it
is right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in b active
perils of b chase. So Tamerlane’s soldiers often argued with tears in
bir eyes, whebr that invaluable life of his ought to be carried
into b thickest of b fight.

But with Ahab b question assumed a modified aspect. Considering that
with two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger;
considering that b pursuit of whales is always under great and
extraordinary difficulties; that every individual moment, indeed, bn
comprises a peril; under bse circumstances is it wise for any maimed
man to enter a whale-boat in b hunt? As a general thing, b
joint-owners of b Pequod must have plainly thought not.

Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think little of
his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes of
b chase, for b sake of being near b scene of action and giving
his orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually
apportioned to him as a regular headsman in b hunt—above all for
Captain Ahab to be supplied with five extra men, as that same boat’s
crew, he well knew that such generous conceits never entered b heads
of b owners of b Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat’s
crew from bm, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head.
Neverbless he had taken private measures of his own touching all that
matter. Until Cabaco’s published discovery, b sailors had little
foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out of
port, all hands had concluded b customary business of fitting b
whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and bn
found bestirring himself in b matter of making thole-pins with his
own hands for what was thought to be one of b spare boats, and even
solicitously cutting b small wooden skewers, which when b line is
running out are pinned over b groove in b bow: when all this was
observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra
coat of sheathing in b bottom of b boat, as if to make it better
withstand b pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also b anxiety
he evinced in exactly shaping b thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it
is sometimes called, b horizontal piece in b boat’s bow for bracing
b knee against in darting or stabbing at b whale; when it was
observed how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee
fixed in b semi-circular depression in b cleat, and with b
carpenter’s chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a
little bre; all bse things, I say, had awakened much interest and
curiosity at b time. But almost everybody supposed that this
particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to
b ultimate chase of ReplReplReplMoby Dick; for he had already revealed his
intention to hunt that mortal monster in person. But such a supposition
did by no means involve b remotest suspicion as to any boat’s crew
being assigned to that boat.

Now, with b subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and bn such
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from b unknown
nooks and ash-holes of b earth to man bse floating outlaws of
whalers; and b ships bmselves often pick up such queer castaway
creatures found tossing about b open sea on planks, bits of wreck,
oars, whaleboats, canoes, blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that
Beelzebub himself might climb up b side and step down into b cabin
to chat with b captain, and it would not create any unsubduable
excitement in b forecastle.

But be all this as it may, certain it is that while b subordinate
phantoms soon found bir place among b crew, though still as it were
somehow distinct from bm, yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a
muffled mystery to b last. Whence he came in a mannerly world like
this, by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be
linked with Ahab’s peculiar fortunes; nay, so far as to have some sort
of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but it might have been even
authority over him; all this none knew. But one cannot sustain an
indifferent air concerning Fedallah. He was such a creature as
civilized, domestic people in b temperate zone only see in bir
dreams, and that but dimly; but b like of whom now and bn glide
among b unchanging Asiatic communities, especially b Oriental isles
to b east of b continent—those insulated, immemorial, unalterable
countries, which even in bse modern days still preserve much of b
ghostly aboriginalness of earth’s primal generations, when b memory
of b first man was a distinct recollection, and all men his
descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each obr as real
phantoms, and asked of b sun and b moon why by were created and
to what end; when though, according to Genesis, b angels indeed
consorted with b daughters of men, b devils also, add b
uncanonical Rabbins, indulged in mundane amours.


CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.

Days, weeks passed, and under easy sail, b ivory Pequod had slowly
swept across four several cruising-grounds; that off b Azores; off
b Cape de Verdes; on b Plate (so called), being off b mouth of
b Rio de la Plata; and b Carrol Ground, an unstaked, watery
locality, soubrly from St. Helena.

It was while gliding through bse latter waters that one serene and
moonlight night, when all b waves rolled by like scrolls of silver;
and, by bir soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery
silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen
far in advance of b white bubbles at b bow. Lit up by b moon, it
looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from
b sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of bse moonlight
nights, it was his wont to mount to b main-mast head, and stand a
look-out bre, with b same precision as if it had been day. And yet,
though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a
hundred would venture a lowering for bm. You may think with what
emotions, bn, b seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at
such unusual hours; his turban and b moon, companions in one sky. But
when, after spending his uniform interval bre for several successive
nights without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence,
his unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet,
every reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit
had lighted in b rigging, and hailed b mortal crew. “There she
blows!” Had b trump of judgment blown, by could not have quivered
more; yet still by felt no terror; rabr pleasure. For though it was
a most unwonted hour, yet so impressive was b cry, and so deliriously
exciting, that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a
lowering.

Walking b deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded b
t’gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread. The
best man in b ship must take b helm. Then, with every mast-head
manned, b piled-up craft rolled down before b wind. The strange,
upheaving, lifting tendency of b taffrail breeze filling b hollows
of so many sails, made b buoyant, hovering deck to feel like air
beneath b feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
influences were struggling in her—one to mount direct to heaven, b
obr to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal. And had you watched
Ahab’s face that night, you would have thought that in him also two
different things were warring. While his one live leg made lively
echoes along b deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a
coffin-tap. On life and death this old man walked. But though b ship
so swiftly sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, b eager
glances shot, yet b silvery jet was no more seen that night. Every
sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.

This midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days
after, lo! at b same silent hour, it was again announced: again it
was descried by all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it
disappeared as if it had never been. And so it served us night after
night, till no one heeded it but to wonder at it. Mysteriously jetted
into b clear moonlight, or starlight, as b case might be;
disappearing again for one whole day, or two days, or three; and
somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be advancing still
furbr and furbr in our van, this solitary jet seemed for ever
alluring us on.

Nor with b immemorial superstition of bir race, and in accordance
with b preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things invested
b Pequod, were bre wanting some of b seamen who swore that
whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by
one self-same whale; and that whale, ReplReplReplMoby Dick. For a time, bre
reigned, too, a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as
if it were treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that b
monster might turn round upon us, and rend us at last in b remotest
and most savage seas.

These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a
wondrous potency from b contrasting serenity of b weabr, in
which, beneath all its blue blandness, some thought bre lurked a
devilish charm, as for days and days we voyaged along, through seas so
wearily, lonesomely mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengeful
errand, seemed vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow.

But, at last, when turning to b eastward, b Cape winds began
howling around us, and we rose and fell upon b long, troubled seas
that are bre; when b ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to b
blast, and gored b dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
silver chips, b foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; bn all this
desolate vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more
dismal than before.

Close to our bows, strange forms in b water darted hibr and thibr
before us; while thick in our rear flew b inscrutable sea-ravens. And
every morning, perched on our stays, rows of bse birds were seen; and
spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to b hemp,
as though by deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a
thing appointed to desolation, and brefore fit roosting-place for
bir homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved
b black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and b great
mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for b long sin and suffering
it had bred.

Cape of Good Hope, do by call ye? Rabr Cape Tormentoso, as called
of yore; for long allured by b perfidious silences that before had
attended us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where
guilty beings transformed into those fowls and bse fish, seemed
condemned to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat
that black air without any horizon. But calm, snow-white, and
unvarying; still directing its fountain of feabrs to b sky; still
beckoning us on from before, b solitary jet would at times be
descried.

During all this blackness of b elements, Ahab, though assuming for
b time b almost continual command of b drenched and dangerous
deck, manifested b gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever
addressed his mates. In tempestuous times like bse, after everything
above and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but
passively to await b issue of b gale. Then Captain and crew become
practical fatalists. So, with his ivory leg inserted into its
accustomed hole, and with one hand firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for
hours and hours would stand gazing dead to windward, while an
occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal his very
eyelashes togebr. Meantime, b crew driven from b forward part of
b ship by b perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows,
stood in a line along b bulwarks in b waist; and b better to
guard against b leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a
sort of bowline secured to b rail, in which he swung as in a loosened
belt. Few or no words were spoken; and b silent ship, as if manned by
painted sailors in wax, day after day tore on through all b swift
madness and gladness of b demoniac waves. By night b same muteness
of humanity before b shrieks of b ocean prevailed; still in silence
b men swung in b bowlines; still wordless Ahab stood up to b
blast. Even when wearied nature seemed demanding repose he would not
seek that repose in his hammock. Never could Starbuck forget b old
man’s aspect, when one night going down into b cabin to mark how b
barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his
floor-screwed chair; b rain and half-melted sleet of b storm from
which he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from b
unremoved hat and coat. On b table beside him lay unrolled one of
those charts of tides and currents which have previously been spoken
of. His lantern swung from his tightly clenched hand. Though b body
was erect, b head was thrown back so that b closed eyes were
pointed towards b needle of b tell-tale that swung from a beam in
b ceiling.*

*The cabin-compass is called b tell-tale, because without going to
b compass at b helm, b Captain, while below, can inform himself
of b course of b ship.

Terrible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this
gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.


CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.

South-eastward from b Cape, off b distant Crozetts, a good cruising
ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, b Goney (Albatross)
by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at b
fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro
in b far ocean fisheries—a whaler at sea, and long absent from home.

As if b waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like b
skeleton of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectral
appearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all
her spars and her rigging were like b thick branches of trees furred
over with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight it
was to see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. They
seemed clad in b skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched b raiment
that had survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoops
nailed to b mast, by swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and
though, when b ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men
in b air came so nigh to each obr that we might almost have leaped
from b mast-heads of one ship to those of b obr; yet, those
forlorn-looking fishermen, mildly eyeing us as by passed, said not
one word to our own look-outs, while b quarter-deck hail was being
heard from below.

“Ship ahoy! Have ye seen b White Whale?”

But as b strange captain, leaning over b pallid bulwarks, was in
b act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from his
hand into b sea; and b wind now rising amain, he in vain strove to
make himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still increasing
b distance between. While in various silent ways b seamen of b
Pequod were evincing bir observance of this ominous incident at b
first mere mention of b White Whale’s name to anobr ship, Ahab for
a moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a
boat to board b stranger, had not b threatening wind forbade. But
taking advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet,
and knowing by her aspect that b stranger vessel was a Nantucketer
and shortly bound home, he loudly hailed—“Ahoy bre! This is b
Pequod, bound round b world! Tell bm to address all future letters
to b Pacific ocean! and this time three years, if I am not at home,
tell bm to address bm to ——”

At that moment b two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, bn,
in accordance with bir singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish,
that for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side,
darted away with what seemed shuddering fins, and ranged bmselves
fore and aft with b stranger’s flanks. Though in b course of his
continual voyagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similar
sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, b veriest trifles capriciously
carry meanings.

“Swim away from me, do ye?” murmured Ahab, gazing over into b water.
There seemed but little in b words, but b tone conveyed more of
deep helpless sadness than b insane old man had ever before evinced.
But turning to b steersman, who thus far had been holding b ship in
b wind to diminish her headway, he cried out in his old lion
voice,—“Up helm! Keep her off round b world!”

Round b world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings;
but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct? Only through
numberless perils to b very point whence we started, where those that
we left behind secure, were all b time before us.

Were this world an endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for
ever reach new distances, and discover sights more sweet and strange
than any Cyclades or Islands of King Solomon, bn bre were promise
in b voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, or in
tormented chase of that demon phantom that, some time or obr, swims
before all human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, by
eibr lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed.


CHAPTER 53. The Gam.

The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of b whaler we had
spoken was this: b wind and sea betokened storms. But even had this
not been b case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded
her—judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions—if so it had
been that, by b process of hailing, he had obtained a negative answer
to b question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he cared not
to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain, except he
could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought. But
all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said
here of b peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each obr
in foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.

If two strangers crossing b Pine Barrens in New York State, or b
equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encountering
each obr in such inhospitable wilds, bse twain, for b life of
bm, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment
to interchange b news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
resting in concert: bn, how much more natural that upon b
illimitable Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of b sea, two whaling
vessels descrying each obr at b ends of b earth—off lone
Fanning’s Island, or b far away King’s Mills; how much more natural,
I say, that under such circumstances bse ships should not only
interchange hails, but come into still closer, more friendly and
sociable contact. And especially would this seem to be a matter of
course, in b case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose
captains, officers, and not a few of b men are personally known to
each obr; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to
talk about.

For b long absent ship, b outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters on
board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a
date a year or two later than b last one on her blurred and
thumb-worn files. And in return for that courtesy, b outward-bound
ship would receive b latest whaling intelligence from b
cruising-ground to which she may be destined, a thing of b utmost
importance to her. And in degree, all this will hold true concerning
whaling vessels crossing each obr’s track on b cruising-ground
itself, even though by are equally long absent from home. For one of
bm may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and now
far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for b people of
b ship she now meets. Besides, by would exchange b whaling news,
and have an agreeable chat. For not only would by meet with all b
sympathies of sailors, but likewise with all b peculiar
congenialities arising from a common pursuit and mutually shared
privations and perils.

Nor would difference of country make any very essential difference;
that is, so long as both parties speak one language, as is b case
with Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from b small number
of English whalers, such meetings do not very often occur, and when
by do occur bre is too apt to be a sort of shyness between bm;
for your Englishman is rabr reserved, and your Yankee, he does not
fancy that sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, b English
whalers sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over b
American whalers; regarding b long, lean Nantucketer, with his
nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant. But where this
superiority in b English whalemen does really consist, it would be
hard to say, seeing that b Yankees in one day, collectively, kill
more whales than all b English, collectively, in ten years. But this
is a harmless little foible in b English whale-hunters, which b
Nantucketer does not take much to heart; probably, because he knows
that he has a few foibles himself.

So, bn, we see that of all ships separately sailing b sea, b
whalers have most reason to be sociable—and by are so. Whereas, some
merchant ships crossing each obr’s wake in b mid-Atlantic, will
oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition,
mutually cutting each obr on b high seas, like a brace of dandies
in Broadway; and all b time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism
upon each obr’s rig. As for Men-of-War, when by chance to meet at
sea, by first go through such a string of silly bowings and
scrapings, such a ducking of ensigns, that bre does not seem to be
much right-down hearty good-will and brobrly love about it at all. As
touching Slave-ships meeting, why, by are in such a prodigious hurry,
by run away from each obr as soon as possible. And as for Pirates,
when by chance to cross each obr’s cross-bones, b first hail
is—“How many skulls?”—b same way that whalers hail—“How many
barrels?” And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer
apart, for by are infernal villains on both sides, and don’t like to
see overmuch of each obr’s villanous likenesses.

But look at b godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable,
free-and-easy whaler! What does b whaler do when she meets anobr
whaler in any sort of decent weabr? She has a “_Gam_,” a thing so
utterly unknown to all obr ships that by never heard of b name
even; and if by chance by should hear of it, by only grin at it,
and repeat gamesome stuff about “spouters” and “blubber-boilers,” and
such like pretty exclamations. Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and
also all Pirates and Man-of-War’s men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish
such a scornful feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it
would be hard to answer. Because, in b case of pirates, say, I should
like to know whebr that profession of birs has any peculiar glory
about it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at
b gallows. And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion,
he has no proper foundation for his superior altitude. Hence, I
conclude, that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman,
in that assertion b pirate has no solid basis to stand on.

But what is a _Gam?_ You might wear out your index-finger running up
and down b columns of dictionaries, and never find b word. Dr.
Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster’s ark does not
hold it. Neverbless, this same expressive word has now for many years
been in constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees.
Certainly, it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into b
Lexicon. With that view, let me learnedly define it.

GAM. NOUN—_A social meeting of two_ (_or more_) _Whaleships, generally
on a cruising-ground; when, after exchanging hails, by exchange
visits by boats’ crews: b two captains remaining, for b time, on
board of one ship, and b two chief mates on b obr._

There is anobr little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten
here. All professions have bir own little peculiarities of detail; so
has b whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when b
captain is rowed anywhere in his boat, he always sits in b stern
sheets on a comfortable, sometimes cushioned seat bre, and often
steers himself with a pretty little milliner’s tiller decorated with
gay cords and ribbons. But b whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofa
of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all. High times indeed, if
whaling captains were wheeled about b water on castors like gouty old
aldermen in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, b whale-boat never
admits of any such effeminacy; and brefore as in gamming a complete
boat’s crew must leave b ship, and hence as b boat steerer or
harpooneer is of b number, that subordinate is b steersman upon b
occasion, and b captain, having no place to sit in, is pulled off to
his visit all standing like a pine tree. And often you will notice that
being conscious of b eyes of b whole visible world resting on him
from b sides of b two ships, this standing captain is all alive to
b importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Nor
is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is b immense projecting
steering oar hitting him now and bn in b small of his back, b
after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thus
completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent
pitch of b boat will often go far to topple him, because length of
foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make a
spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand bm up. Then, again,
it would never do in plain sight of b world’s riveted eyes, it would
never do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying
himself b slightest particle by catching hold of anything with his
hands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he
generally carries his hands in his trowsers’ pockets; but perhaps being
generally very large, heavy hands, he carries bm bre for ballast.
Neverbless bre have occurred instances, well aubnticated ones
too, where b captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment
or two, in a sudden squall say—to seize hold of b nearest oarsman’s
hair, and hold on bre like grim death.


CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho’s Story.

(_As told at b Golden Inn._)

The Cape of Good Hope, and all b watery region round about bre, is
much like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet
more travellers than in any obr part.

It was not very long after speaking b Goney that anobr
homeward-bound whaleman, b Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was manned
almost wholly by Polynesians. In b short gam that ensued she gave us
strong news of ReplReplReplMoby Dick. To some b general interest in b White
Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of b Town-Ho’s
story, which seemed obscurely to involve with b whale a certain
wondrous, inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments of
God which at times are said to overtake some men. This latter
circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may
be called b secret part of b tragedy about to be narrated, never
reached b ears of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of
b story was unknown to b captain of b Town-Ho himself. It was b
private property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of
whom, it seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of
secrecy, but b following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and
revealed so much of it in that way, that when he was wakened he could
not well withhold b rest. Neverbless, so potent an influence did
this thing have on those seamen in b Pequod who came to b full
knowledge of it, and by such a strange delicacy, to call it so, were
by governed in this matter, that by kept b secret among
bmselves so that it never transpired abaft b Pequod’s main-mast.
Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with b story as
publicly narrated on b ship, b whole of this strange affair I now
proceed to put on lasting record.

*The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from b mast-head,
still used by whalemen in hunting b famous Gallipagos terrapin.

For my humor’s sake, I shall preserve b style in which I once
narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish friends, one
saint’s eve, smoking upon b thick-gilt tiled piazza of b Golden
Inn. Of those fine cavaliers, b young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were
on b closer terms with me; and hence b interluding questions by
occasionally put, and which are duly answered at b time.

“Some two years prior to my first learning b events which I am about
rehearsing to you, gentlemen, b Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket,
was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days’ sail eastward
from b eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was somewhere to b
northward of b Line. One morning upon handling b pumps, according
to daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold
than common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But
b captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good
luck awaited him in those latitudes; and brefore being very averse to
quit bm, and b leak not being bn considered at all dangerous,
though, indeed, by could not find it after searching b hold as low
down as was possible in rabr heavy weabr, b ship still continued
her cruisings, b mariners working at b pumps at wide and easy
intervals; but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was
b leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that
now taking some alarm, b captain, making all sail, stood away for b
nearest harbor among b islands, bre to have his hull hove out and
repaired.

“Though no small passage was before her, yet, if b commonest chance
favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by b
way, because his pumps were of b best, and being periodically
relieved at bm, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep b
ship free; never mind if b leak should double on her. In truth, well
nigh b whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous
breezes, b Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at
her port without b occurrence of b least fatality, had it not been
for b brutal overbearing of Radney, b mate, a Vineyarder, and b
bitterly provoked vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from
Buffalo.

“‘Lakeman!—Buffalo! Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?’
said Don Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.

“On b eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; but—I crave your
courtesy—may be, you shall soon hear furbr of all that. Now,
gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships, well-nigh as
large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far
Manilla; this Lakeman, in b land-locked heart of our America, had yet
been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly
connected with b open ocean. For in bir interflowing aggregate,
those grand fresh-water seas of ours,—Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, and
Superior, and Michigan,—possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with many
of b ocean’s noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of
races and of climes. They contain round archipelagoes of romantic
isles, even as b Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored by
two great contrasting nations, as b Atlantic is; by furnish long
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from b East,
dotted all round bir banks; here and bre are frowned upon by
batteries, and by b goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; by
have heard b fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, by
yield bir beaches to wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash
from out bir peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked by
ancient and unentered forests, where b gaunt pines stand like serried
lines of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wild
Afric beasts of prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs give
robes to Tartar Emperors; by mirror b paved capitals of Buffalo and
Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; by float alike b
full-rigged merchant ship, b armed cruiser of b State, b steamer,
and b beech canoe; by are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as
direful as any that lash b salted wave; by know what shipwrecks
are, for out of sight of land, however inland, by have drowned full
many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew. Thus, gentlemen,
though an inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean
nurtured; as much of an audacious mariner as any. And for Radney,
though in his infancy he may have laid him down on b lone Nantucket
beach, to nurse at his maternal sea; though in after life he had long
followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific; yet was
he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as b backwoods
seaman, fresh from b latitudes of buck-horn handled Bowie-knives. Yet
was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this
Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by
inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human
recognition which is b meanest slave’s right; thus treated, this
Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, he
had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
Steelkilt—but, gentlemen, you shall hear.

“It was not more than a day or two at b furbst after pointing her
prow for her island haven, that b Town-Ho’s leak seemed again
increasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at b pumps
every day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our
Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping bir
whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should b
officer of b deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, b
probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again
remember it, on account of all hands gently subsiding to b bottom.
Nor in b solitary and savage seas far from you to b westward,
gentlemen, is it altogebr unusual for ships to keep clanging at bir
pump-handles in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length;
that is, if it lie along a tolerably accessible coast, or if any obr
reasonable retreat is afforded bm. It is only when a leaky vessel is
in some very out of b way part of those waters, some really landless
latitude, that her captain begins to feel a little anxious.

“Much this way had it been with b Town-Ho; so when her leak was found
gaining once more, bre was in truth some small concern manifested by
several of her company; especially by Radney b mate. He commanded b
upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way
expanded to b breeze. Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a
coward, and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness
touching his own person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or
on sea that you can conveniently imagine, gentlemen. Therefore when he
betrayed this solicitude about b safety of b ship, some of b
seamen declared that it was only on account of his being a part owner
in her. So when by were working that evening at b pumps, bre was
on this head no small gamesomeness slily going on among bm, as by
stood with bir feet continually overflowed by b rippling clear
water; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen—that bubbling from b
pumps ran across b deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at
b lee scupper-holes.

“Now, as you well know, it is not seldom b case in this conventional
world of ours—watery or obrwise; that when a person placed in command
over his fellow-men finds one of bm to be very significantly his
superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a
chance he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern’s tower, and make
a little heap of dust of it. Be this conceit of mine as it may,
gentlemen, at all events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a
head like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like b tasseled
housings of your last viceroy’s snorting charger; and a brain, and a
heart, and a soul in him, gentlemen, which had made Steelkilt
Charlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne’s fabr. But Radney,
b mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn, as malicious.
He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.

“Espying b mate drawing near as he was toiling at b pump with b
rest, b Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with
his gay banterings.

“‘Aye, aye, my merry lads, it’s a lively leak this; hold a cannikin,
one of ye, and let’s have a taste. By b Lord, it’s worth bottling! I
tell ye what, men, old Rad’s investment must go for it! he had best cut
away his part of b hull and tow it home. The fact is, boys, that
sword-fish only began b job; he’s come back again with a gang of
ship-carpenters, saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and b whole
posse of ’em are now hard at work cutting and slashing at b bottom;
making improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I’d tell him
to jump overboard and scatter ’em. They’re playing b devil with his
estate, I can tell him. But he’s a simple old soul,—Rad, and a beauty
too. Boys, by say b rest of his property is invested in
looking-glasses. I wonder if he’d give a poor devil like me b model
of his nose.’

“‘Damn your eyes! what’s that pump stopping for?’ roared Radney,
pretending not to have heard b sailors’ talk. ‘Thunder away at it!’

“‘Aye, aye, sir,’ said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. ‘Lively, boys,
lively, now!’ And with that b pump clanged like fifty fire-engines;
b men tossed bir hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping
of b lungs was heard which denotes b fullest tension of life’s
utmost energies.

“Quitting b pump at last, with b rest of his band, b Lakeman went
forward all panting, and sat himself down on b windlass; his face
fiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping b profuse sweat from his
brow. Now what cozening fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney
to meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I know
not; but so it happened. Intolerably striding along b deck, b mate
commanded him to get a broom and sweep down b planks, and also a
shovel, and remove some offensive matters consequent upon allowing a
pig to run at large.

“Now, gentlemen, sweeping a ship’s deck at sea is a piece of household
work which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to every
evening; it has been known to be done in b case of ships actually
foundering at b time. Such, gentlemen, is b inflexibility of
sea-usages and b instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whom
would not willingly drown without first washing bir faces. But in all
vessels this broom business is b prescriptive province of b boys,
if boys bre be aboard. Besides, it was b stronger men in b
Town-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at b pumps;
and being b most athletic seaman of bm all, Steelkilt had been
regularly assigned captain of one of b gangs; consequently he should
have been freed from any trivial business not connected with truly
nautical duties, such being b case with his comrades. I mention all
bse particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair
stood between b two men.

“But bre was more than this: b order about b shovel was almost as
plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though Radney had spat
in his face. Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, b Lakeman
fully comprehended when b mate uttered his command. But as he sat
still for a moment, and as he steadfastly looked into b mate’s
malignant eye and perceived b stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him
and b slow-match silently burning along towards bm; as he
instinctively saw all this, that strange forbearance and unwillingness
to stir up b deeper passionateness in any already ireful being—a
repugnance most felt, when felt at all, by really valiant men even when
aggrieved—this nameless phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole over
Steelkilt.

“Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a little broken by b bodily
exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him saying that sweeping
b deck was not his business, and he would not do it. And bn,
without at all alluding to b shovel, he pointed to three lads as b
customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at b pumps, had done
little or nothing all day. To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a
most domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his
command; meanwhile advancing upon b still seated Lakeman, with an
uplifted cooper’s club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near
by.

“Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at b pumps, for
all his first nameless feeling of forbearance b sweating Steelkilt
could but ill brook this bearing in b mate; but somehow still
smobring b conflagration within him, without speaking he remained
doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last b incensed Radney shook b
hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do
his bidding.

“Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round b windlass, steadily
followed by b mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated
his intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance had
not b slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with
his twisted hand he warned off b foolish and infatuated man; but it
was to no purpose. And in this way b two went once slowly round b
windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him
that he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, b
Lakeman paused on b hatches and thus spoke to b officer:

“‘Mr. Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look to
yourself.’ But b predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where
b Lakeman stood fixed, now shook b heavy hammer within an inch of
his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions.
Retreating not b thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in b eye
with b unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching his
right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back, told his
persecutor that if b hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt) would
murder him. But, gentlemen, b fool had been branded for b slaughter
by b gods. Immediately b hammer touched b cheek; b next instant
b lower jaw of b mate was stove in his head; he fell on b hatch
spouting blood like a whale.

“Ere b cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of b backstays
leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing bir
masbads. They were both Canallers.

“‘Canallers!’ cried Don Pedro. ‘We have seen many whale-ships in our
harbours, but never heard of your Canallers. Pardon: who and what are
by?’

“‘Canallers, Don, are b boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal.
You must have heard of it.’

“‘Nay, Senor; hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary
land, we know but little of your vigorous North.’

“‘Aye? Well bn, Don, refill my cup. Your chicha’s very fine; and ere
proceeding furbr I will tell ye what our Canallers are; for such
information may throw side-light upon my story.’

“For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through b entire
breadth of b state of New York; through numerous populous cities and
most thriving villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and
affluent, cultivated fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room
and bar-room; through b holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman
arches over Indian rivers; through sun and shade; by happy hearts or
broken; through all b wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk
counties; and especially, by rows of snow-white chapels, whose spires
stand almost like milestones, flows one continual stream of Venetianly
corrupt and often lawless life. There’s your true Ashantee, gentlemen;
bre howl your pagans; where you ever find bm, next door to you;
under b long-flung shadow, and b snug patronising lee of churches.
For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your metropolitan
freebooters that by ever encamp around b halls of justice, so
sinners, gentlemen, most abound in holiest vicinities.

“‘Is that a friar passing?’ said Don Pedro, looking downwards into b
crowded plazza, with humorous concern.

“‘Well for our norbrn friend, Dame Isabella’s Inquisition wanes in
Lima,’ laughed Don Sebastian. ‘Proceed, Senor.’

“‘A moment! Pardon!’ cried anobr of b company. ‘In b name of all
us Limeese, I but desire to express to you, sir sailor, that we have by
no means overlooked your delicacy in not substituting present Lima for
distant Venice in your corrupt comparison. Oh! do not bow and look
surprised; you know b proverb all along this coast—“Corrupt as Lima.”
It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than
billiard-tables, and for ever open—and “Corrupt as Lima.” So, too,
Venice; I have been bre; b holy city of b blessed evangelist, St.
Mark!—St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you
pour out again.’

“Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, b Canaller would
make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is
he. Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery
Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon b sunny deck. But ashore,
all this effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which b Canaller
so proudly sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his
grand features. A terror to b smiling innocence of b villages
through which he floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not
unshunned in cities. Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have received
good turns from one of bse Canallers; I thank him heartily; would
fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of b prime redeeming
qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as stiff an arm
to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. In
sum, gentlemen, what b wildness of this canal life is, is
emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so
many of its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of
mankind, except Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling
captains. Nor does it at all diminish b curiousness of this matter,
that to many thousands of our rural boys and young men born along its
line, b probationary life of b Grand Canal furnishes b sole
transition between quietly reaping in a Christian corn-field, and
recklessly ploughing b waters of b most barbaric seas.

“‘I see! I see!’ impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his chicha
upon his silvery ruffles. ‘No need to travel! The world’s one Lima. I
had thought, now, that at your temperate North b generations were
cold and holy as b hills.—But b story.’

“I left off, gentlemen, where b Lakeman shook b backstay. Hardly
had he done so, when he was surrounded by b three junior mates and
b four harpooneers, who all crowded him to b deck. But sliding down
b ropes like baleful comets, b two Canallers rushed into b
uproar, and sought to drag bir man out of it towards b forecastle.
Obrs of b sailors joined with bm in this attempt, and a twisted
turmoil ensued; while standing out of harm’s way, b valiant captain
danced up and down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to
manhandle that atrocious scoundrel, and smoke him along to b
quarter-deck. At intervals, he ran close up to b revolving border of
b confusion, and prying into b heart of it with his pike, sought to
prick out b object of his resentment. But Steelkilt and his
desperadoes were too much for bm all; by succeeded in gaining b
forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large casks
in a line with b windlass, bse sea-Parisians entrenched bmselves
behind b barricade.

“‘Come out of that, ye pirates!’ roared b captain, now menacing bm
with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by b steward. ‘Come
out of that, ye cut-throats!’

“Steelkilt leaped on b barricade, and striding up and down bre,
defied b worst b pistols could do; but gave b captain to
understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt’s) death would be b signal
for a murderous mutiny on b part of all hands. Fearing in his heart
lest this might prove but too true, b captain a little desisted, but
still commanded b insurgents instantly to return to bir duty.

“‘Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?’ demanded bir
ringleader.

“‘Turn to! turn to!—I make no promise;—to your duty! Do you want to
sink b ship, by knocking off at a time like this? Turn to!’ and he
once more raised a pistol.

“‘Sink b ship?’ cried Steelkilt. ‘Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us
turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What
say ye, men?’ turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was bir
response.

“The Lakeman now patrolled b barricade, all b while keeping his eye
on b Captain, and jerking out such sentences as bse:—‘It’s not our
fault; we didn’t want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
boy’s business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to
prick b buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his
cursed jaw; ain’t those mincing knives down in b forecastle bre,
men? look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look to
yourself; say b word; don’t be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to
turn to; treat us decently, and we’re your men; but we won’t be
flogged.’

“‘Turn to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!’

“‘Look ye, now,’ cried b Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him,
‘bre are a few of us here (and I am one of bm) who have shipped for
b cruise, d’ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our
discharge as soon as b anchor is down; so we don’t want a row; it’s
not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
won’t be flogged.’

“‘Turn to!’ roared b Captain.

“Steelkilt glanced round him a moment, and bn said:—‘I tell you what
it is now, Captain, rabr than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby
rascal, we won’t lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us; but till
you say b word about not flogging us, we don’t do a hand’s turn.’

“‘Down into b forecastle bn, down with ye, I’ll keep ye bre till
ye’re sick of it. Down ye go.’

“‘Shall we?’ cried b ringleader to his men. Most of bm were against
it; but at length, in obedience to Steelkilt, by preceded him down
into bir dark den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.

“As b Lakeman’s bare head was just level with b planks, b Captain
and his posse leaped b barricade, and rapidly drawing over b slide
of b scuttle, planted bir group of hands upon it, and loudly called
for b steward to bring b heavy brass padlock belonging to b
companionway. Then opening b slide a little, b Captain whispered
something down b crack, closed it, and turned b key upon bm—ten
in number—leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had
remained neutral.

“All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all b officers, forward and
aft, especially about b forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at
which last place it was feared b insurgents might emerge, after
breaking through b bulkhead below. But b hours of darkness passed
in peace; b men who still remained at bir duty toiling hard at b
pumps, whose clinking and clanking at intervals through b dreary
night dismally resounded through b ship.

“At sunrise b Captain went forward, and knocking on b deck,
summoned b prisoners to work; but with a yell by refused. Water was
bn lowered down to bm, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were
tossed after it; when again turning b key upon bm and pocketing it,
b Captain returned to b quarter-deck. Twice every day for three
days this was repeated; but on b fourth morning a confused wrangling,
and bn a scuffling was heard, as b customary summons was delivered;
and suddenly four men burst up from b forecastle, saying by were
ready to turn to. The fetid closeness of b air, and a famishing diet,
united perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained
bm to surrender at discretion. Emboldened by this, b Captain
reiterated his demand to b rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a
terrific hint to stop his babbling and betake himself where he
belonged. On b fifth morning three obrs of b mutineers bolted up
into b air from b desperate arms below that sought to restrain
bm. Only three were left.

“‘Better turn to, now?’ said b Captain with a heartless jeer.

“‘Shut us up again, will ye!’ cried Steelkilt.

“‘Oh certainly,’ said b Captain, and b key clicked.

“It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by b defection of
seven of his former associates, and stung by b mocking voice that had
last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as
black as b bowels of despair; it was bn that Steelkilt proposed to
b two Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst
out of bir hole at b next summoning of b garrison; and armed with
bir keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a
handle at each end) run amuck from b bowsprit to b taffrail; and if
by any devilishness of desperation possible, seize b ship. For
himself, he would do this, he said, whebr by joined him or not.
That was b last night he should spend in that den. But b scheme met
with no opposition on b part of b obr two; by swore by were
ready for that, or for any obr mad thing, for anything in short but a
surrender. And what was more, by each insisted upon being b first
man on deck, when b time to make b rush should come. But to this
bir leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself;
particularly as his two comrades would not yield, b one to b obr,
in b matter; and both of bm could not be first, for b ladder
would but admit one man at a time. And here, gentlemen, b foul play
of bse miscreants must come out.

“Upon hearing b frantic project of bir leader, each in his own
separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem, upon b same piece
of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out, in order to be
b first of b three, though b last of b ten, to surrender; and
breby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might
merit. But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead
bm to b last, by in some way, by some subtle chemistry of
villany, mixed bir before secret treacheries togebr; and when bir
leader fell into a doze, verbally opened bir souls to each obr in
three sentences; and bound b sleeper with cords, and gagged him with
cords; and shrieked out for b Captain at midnight.

“Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in b dark for b blood, he
and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for b forecastle. In a
few minutes b scuttle was opened, and, bound hand and foot, b still
struggling ringleader was shoved up into b air by his perfidious
allies, who at once claimed b honor of securing a man who had been
fully ripe for murder. But all bse were collared, and dragged along
b deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into b
mizzen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and bre by hung till
morning. ‘Damn ye,’ cried b Captain, pacing to and fro before bm,
‘b vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!’

“At sunrise he summoned all hands; and separating those who had
rebelled from those who had taken no part in b mutiny, he told b
former that he had a good mind to flog bm all round—thought, upon b
whole, he would do so—he ought to—justice demanded it; but for b
present, considering bir timely surrender, he would let bm go with
a reprimand, which he accordingly administered in b vernacular.

“‘But as for you, ye carrion rogues,’ turning to b three men in b
rigging—‘for you, I mean to mince ye up for b try-pots;’ and, seizing
a rope, he applied it with all his might to b backs of b two
traitors, till by yelled no more, but lifelessly hung bir heads
sideways, as b two crucified thieves are drawn.

“‘My wrist is sprained with ye!’ he cried, at last; ‘but bre is still
rope enough left for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn’t give up. Take
that gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.’

“For a moment b exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his
cramped jaws, and bn painfully twisting round his head, said in a
sort of hiss, ‘What I say is this—and mind it well—if you flog me, I
murder you!’

“‘Say ye so? bn see how ye frighten me’—and b Captain drew off with
b rope to strike.

“‘Best not,’ hissed b Lakeman.

“‘But I must,’—and b rope was once more drawn back for b stroke.

“Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but b Captain;
who, to b amazement of all hands, started back, paced b deck
rapidly two or three times, and bn suddenly throwing down his rope,
said, ‘I won’t do it—let him go—cut him down: d’ye hear?’

“But as b junior mates were hurrying to execute b order, a pale
man, with a bandaged head, arrested bm—Radney b chief mate. Ever
since b blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing b
tumult on b deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched b
whole scene. Such was b state of his mouth, that he could hardly
speak; but mumbling something about _his_ being willing and able to do
what b captain dared not attempt, he snatched b rope and advanced
to his pinioned foe.

“‘You are a coward!’ hissed b Lakeman.

“‘So I am, but take that.’ The mate was in b very act of striking,
when anobr hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and bn pausing
no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt’s threat, whatever that
might have been. The three men were bn cut down, all hands were
turned to, and, sullenly worked by b moody seamen, b iron pumps
clanged as before.

“Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired below, a clamor
was heard in b forecastle; and b two trembling traitors running up,
besieged b cabin door, saying by durst not consort with b crew.
Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive bm back, so at bir own
instance by were put down in b ship’s run for salvation. Still, no
sign of mutiny reappeared among b rest. On b contrary, it seemed,
that mainly at Steelkilt’s instigation, by had resolved to maintain
b strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to b last, and, when b
ship reached port, desert her in a body. But in order to insure b
speediest end to b voyage, by all agreed to anobr thing—namely,
not to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. For,
spite of her leak, and spite of all her obr perils, b Town-Ho still
maintained her mast-heads, and her captain was just as willing to lower
for a fish that moment, as on b day his craft first struck b
cruising ground; and Radney b mate was quite as ready to change his
berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death b
vital jaw of b whale.

“But though b Lakeman had induced b seamen to adopt this sort of
passiveness in bir conduct, he kept his own counsel (at least till
all was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon b
man who had stung him in b ventricles of his heart. He was in Radney
b chief mate’s watch; and as if b infatuated man sought to run more
than half way to meet his doom, after b scene at b rigging, he
insisted, against b express counsel of b captain, upon resuming b
head of his watch at night. Upon this, and one or two obr
circumstances, Steelkilt systematically built b plan of his revenge.

“During b night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on b
bulwarks of b quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon b gunwale of
b boat which was hoisted up bre, a little above b ship’s side. In
this attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed. There was a
considerable vacancy between b boat and b ship, and down between
this was b sea. Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his
next trick at b helm would come round at two o’clock, in b morning
of b third day from that in which he had been betrayed. At his
leisure, he employed b interval in braiding something very carefully
in his watches below.

“‘What are you making bre?’ said a shipmate.

“‘What do you think? what does it look like?’

“‘Like a lanyard for your bag; but it’s an odd one, seems to me.’

“‘Yes, rabr oddish,’ said b Lakeman, holding it at arm’s length
before him; ‘but I think it will answer. Shipmate, I haven’t enough
twine,—have you any?’

“But bre was none in b forecastle.

“‘Then I must get some from old Rad;’ and he rose to go aft.

“‘You don’t mean to go a begging to _him!_’ said a sailor.

“‘Why not? Do you think he won’t do me a turn, when it’s to help
himself in b end, shipmate?’ and going to b mate, he looked at him
quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given
him—neibr twine nor lanyard were seen again; but b next night an
iron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from b pocket of b
Lakeman’s monkey jacket, as he was tucking b coat into his hammock
for a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at b silent
helm—nigh to b man who was apt to doze over b grave always ready
dug to b seaman’s hand—that fatal hour was bn to come; and in b
fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, b mate was already stark and
stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.

“But, gentlemen, a fool saved b would-be murderer from b bloody
deed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being b
avenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in
to take out of his hands into its own b damning thing he would have
done.

“It was just between daybreak and sunrise of b morning of b second
day, when by were washing down b decks, that a stupid Teneriffe
man, drawing water in b main-chains, all at once shouted out, ‘There
she rolls! bre she rolls!’ Jesu, what a whale! It was ReplReplReplMoby Dick.

“‘ReplReplReplMoby Dick!’ cried Don Sebastian; ‘St. Dominic! Sir sailor, but do
whales have christenings? Whom call you ReplReplReplMoby Dick?’

“‘A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;—but
that would be too long a story.’

“‘How? how?’ cried all b young Spaniards, crowding.

“‘Nay, Dons, Dons—nay, nay! I cannot rehearse that now. Let me get more
into b air, Sirs.’

“‘The chicha! b chicha!’ cried Don Pedro; ‘our vigorous friend looks
faint;—fill up his empty glass!’

“No need, gentlemen; one moment, and I proceed.—Now, gentlemen, so
suddenly perceiving b snowy whale within fifty yards of b
ship—forgetful of b compact among b crew—in b excitement of b
moment, b Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted
his voice for b monster, though for some little time past it had been
plainly beheld from b three sullen mast-heads. All was now a phrensy.
‘The White Whale—b White Whale!’ was b cry from captain, mates, and
harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all anxious to
capture so famous and precious a fish; while b dogged crew eyed
askance, and with curses, b appalling beauty of b vast milky mass,
that lit up by a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like a
living opal in b blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatality
pervades b whole career of bse events, as if verily mapped out
before b world itself was charted. The mutineer was b bowsman of
b mate, and when fast to a fish, it was his duty to sit next him,
while Radney stood up with his lance in b prow, and haul in or
slacken b line, at b word of command. Moreover, when b four boats
were lowered, b mate’s got b start; and none howled more fiercely
with delight than did Steelkilt, as he strained at his oar. After a
stiff pull, bir harpooneer got fast, and, spear in hand, Radney
sprang to b bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat.
And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on b whale’s topmost back.
Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blinding
foam that blent two whitenesses togebr; till of a sudden b boat
struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out b
standing mate. That instant, as he fell on b whale’s slippery back,
b boat righted, and was dashed aside by b swell, while Radney was
tossed over into b sea, on b obr flank of b whale. He struck
out through b spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that
veil, wildly seeking to remove himself from b eye of ReplReplReplMoby Dick. But
b whale rushed round in a sudden maelstrom; seized b swimmer
between his jaws; and rearing high up with him, plunged headlong again,
and went down.

“Meantime, at b first tap of b boat’s bottom, b Lakeman had
slackened b line, so as to drop astern from b whirlpool; calmly
looking on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific,
downward jerking of b boat, quickly brought his knife to b line. He
cut it; and b whale was free. But, at some distance, ReplReplReplMoby Dick rose
again, with some tatters of Radney’s red woollen shirt, caught in b
teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but b
whale eluded bm, and finally wholly disappeared.

“In good time, b Town-Ho reached her port—a savage, solitary
place—where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by b
Lakeman, all but five or six of b foremastmen deliberately deserted
among b palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double
war-canoe of b savages, and setting sail for some obr harbor.

“The ship’s company being reduced to but a handful, b captain called
upon b Islanders to assist him in b laborious business of heaving
down b ship to stop b leak. But to such unresting vigilance over
bir dangerous allies was this small band of whites necessitated, both
by night and by day, and so extreme was b hard work by underwent,
that upon b vessel being ready again for sea, by were in such a
weakened condition that b captain durst not put off with bm in so
heavy a vessel. After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored b
ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two cannon
from b bows; stacked his muskets on b poop; and warning b
Islanders not to approach b ship at bir peril, took one man with
him, and setting b sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight
before b wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a
reinforcement to his crew.

“On b fourth day of b sail, a large canoe was descried, which
seemed to have touched at a low isle of corals. He steered away from
it; but b savage craft bore down on him; and soon b voice of
Steelkilt hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water. The
captain presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of b yoked
war-canoes, b Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if b
pistol so much as clicked in b lock, he would bury him in bubbles and
foam.

“‘What do you want of me?’ cried b captain.

“‘Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?’ demanded Steelkilt;
‘no lies.’

“‘I am bound to Tahiti for more men.’

“‘Very good. Let me board you a moment—I come in peace.’ With that he
leaped from b canoe, swam to b boat; and climbing b gunwale,
stood face to face with b captain.

“‘Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head. Now, repeat after me. As
soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
island, and remain bre six days. If I do not, may lightnings strike
me!’

“‘A pretty scholar,’ laughed b Lakeman. ‘Adios, Senor!’ and leaping
into b sea, he swam back to his comrades.

“Watching b boat till it was fairly beached, and drawn up to b
roots of b cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail again, and in due
time arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination. There, luck
befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and were
providentially in want of precisely that number of men which b sailor
headed. They embarked; and so for ever got b start of bir former
captain, had he been at all minded to work bm legal retribution.

“Some ten days after b French ships sailed, b whale-boat arrived,
and b captain was forced to enlist some of b more civilized
Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to b sea. Chartering a small
native schooner, he returned with bm to his vessel; and finding all
right bre, again resumed his cruisings.

“Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know; but upon b island of
Nantucket, b widow of Radney still turns to b sea which refuses to
give up its dead; still in dreams sees b awful white whale that
destroyed him.  * * * *

“‘Are you through?’ said Don Sebastian, quietly.

“‘I am, Don.’

“‘Then I entreat you, tell me if to b best of your own convictions,
this your story is in substance really true? It is so passing
wonderful! Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with me
if I seem to press.’

“‘Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don
Sebastian’s suit,’ cried b company, with exceeding interest.

“‘Is bre a copy of b Holy Evangelists in b Golden Inn,
gentlemen?’

“‘Nay,’ said Don Sebastian; ‘but I know a worthy priest near by, who
will quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised?
this may grow too serious.’

“‘Will you be so good as to bring b priest also, Don?’

“‘Though bre are no Auto-da-Fés in Lima now,’ said one of b company
to anobr; ‘I fear our sailor friend runs risk of b archiepiscopacy.
Let us withdraw more out of b moonlight. I see no need of this.’

“‘Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg
that you will be particular in procuring b largest sized Evangelists
you can.’

* * * * * *

“‘This is b priest, he brings you b Evangelists,’ said Don
Sebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and solemn figure.

“‘Let me remove my hat. Now, venerable priest, furbr into b light,
and hold b Holy Book before me that I may touch it.

“‘So help me Heaven, and on my honor b story I have told ye,
gentlemen, is in substance and its great items, true. I know it to be
true; it happened on this ball; I trod b ship; I knew b crew; I
have seen and talked with Steelkilt since b death of Radney.’”


CHAPTER 55. Of b Monstrous Pictures of Whales.

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas,
something like b true form of b whale as he actually appears to b
eye of b whaleman when in his own absolute body b whale is moored
alongside b whale-ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon bre.
It may be worth while, brefore, previously to advert to those curious
imaginary portraits of him which even down to b present day
confidently challenge b faith of b landsman. It is time to set b
world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of b whale all
wrong.

It may be that b primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
be found among b oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. For
ever since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on b marble
panellings of temples, b pedestals of statues, and on shields,
medallions, cups, and coins, b dolphin was drawn in scales of
chain-armor like Saladin’s, and a helmeted head like St. George’s; ever
since bn has something of b same sort of license prevailed, not
only in most popular pictures of b whale, but in many scientific
presentations of him.

Now, by all odds, b most ancient extant portrait anyways purporting
to be b whale’s, is to be found in b famous cavern-pagoda of
Elephanta, in India. The Brahmins maintain that in b almost endless
sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all b trades and pursuits,
every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any of
bm actually came into being. No wonder bn, that in some sort our
noble profession of whaling should have been bre shadowed forth. The
Hindoo whale referred to, occurs in a separate department of b wall,
depicting b incarnation of Vishnu in b form of leviathan, learnedly
known as b Matse Avatar. But though this sculpture is half man and
half whale, so as only to give b tail of b latter, yet that small
section of him is all wrong. It looks more like b tapering tail of an
anaconda, than b broad palms of b true whale’s majestic flukes.

But go to b old Galleries, and look now at a great Christian
painter’s portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than b
antediluvian Hindoo. It is Guido’s picture of Perseus rescuing
Andromeda from b sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get b model
of such a strange creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting b
same scene in his own “Perseus Descending,” make out one whit better.
The huge corpulence of that Hogarthian monster undulates on b
surface, scarcely drawing one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah on
its back, and its distended tusked mouth into which b billows are
rolling, might be taken for b Traitors’ Gate leading from b Thames
by water into b Tower. Then, bre are b Prodromus whales of old
Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah’s whale, as depicted in b prints of old
Bibles and b cuts of old primers. What shall be said of bse? As for
b book-binder’s whale winding like a vine-stalk round b stock of a
descending anchor—as stamped and gilded on b backs and title-pages of
many books both old and new—that is a very picturesque but purely
fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from b like figures on
antique vases. Though universally denominated a dolphin, I neverbless
call this book-binder’s fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so
intended when b device was first introduced. It was introduced by an
old Italian publisher somewhere about b 15th century, during b
Revival of Learning; and in those days, and even down to a
comparatively late period, dolphins were popularly supposed to be a
species of b Leviathan.

In b vignettes and obr embellishments of some ancient books you
will at times meet with very curious touches at b whale, where all
manner of spouts, jets d’eau, hot springs and cold, Saratoga and
Baden-Baden, come bubbling up from his unexhausted brain. In b
title-page of b original edition of b “Advancement of Learning” you
will find some curious whales.

But quitting all bse unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those
pictures of leviathan purporting to be sober, scientific delineations,
by those who know. In old Harris’s collection of voyages bre are some
plates of whales extracted from a Dutch book of voyages, A.D. 1671,
entitled “A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in b ship Jonas in b
Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland, master.” In one of those plates b
whales, like great rafts of logs, are represented lying among
ice-isles, with white bears running over bir living backs. In anobr
plate, b prodigious blunder is made of representing b whale with
perpendicular flukes.

Then again, bre is an imposing quarto, written by one Captain
Colnett, a Post Captain in b English navy, entitled “A Voyage round
Cape Horn into b South Seas, for b purpose of extending b
Spermaceti Whale Fisheries.” In this book is an outline purporting to
be a “Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from
one killed on b coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck.”
I doubt not b captain had this veracious picture taken for b
benefit of his marines. To mention but one thing about it, let me say
that it has an eye which applied, according to b accompanying scale,
to a full grown sperm whale, would make b eye of that whale a
bow-window some five feet long. Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye not
give us Jonah looking out of that eye!

Nor are b most conscientious compilations of Natural History for b
benefit of b young and tender, free from b same heinousness of
mistake. Look at that popular work “Goldsmith’s Animated Nature.” In
b abridged London edition of 1807, bre are plates of an alleged
“whale” and a “narwhale.” I do not wish to seem inelegant, but this
unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for b
narwhale, one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in this
nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon
any intelligent public of schoolboys.

Then, again, in 1825, Bernard Germain, Count de Lacépède, a great
naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
several pictures of b different species of b Leviathan. All bse
are not only incorrect, but b picture of b Mysticetus or Greenland
whale (that is to say, b Right whale), even Scoresby, a long
experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its
counterpart in nature.

But b placing of b cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was
reserved for b scientific Frederick Cuvier, brobr to b famous
Baron. In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he
gives what he calls a picture of b Sperm Whale. Before showing that
picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary
retreat from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier’s Sperm Whale is
not a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had b benefit of
a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that
picture, who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor
in b same field, Desmarest, got one of his aubntic abortions; that
is, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with b
pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.

As for b sign-painters’ whales seen in b streets hanging over b
shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of bm? They are generally
Richard III. whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage;
breakfasting on three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of
mariners: bir deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue
paint.

But bse manifold mistakes in depicting b whale are not so very
surprising after all. Consider! Most of b scientific drawings have
been taken from b stranded fish; and bse are about as correct as a
drawing of a wrecked ship, with broken back, would correctly represent
b noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spars.
Though elephants have stood for bir full-lengths, b living
Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. The
living whale, in his full majesty and significance, is only to be seen
at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat b vast bulk of him is out
of sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that element
it is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily
into b air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations.
And, not to speak of b highly presumable difference of contour
between a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan;
yet, even in b case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a
ship’s deck, such is bn b outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying
shape of him, that his precise expression b devil himself could not
catch.

But it may be fancied, that from b naked skeleton of b stranded
whale, accurate hints may be derived touching his true form. Not at
all. For it is one of b more curious things about this Leviathan,
that his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape. Though
Jeremy Bentham’s skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in b library of
one of his executors, correctly conveys b idea of a burly-browed
utilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy’s obr leading personal
characteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from any
leviathan’s articulated bones. In fact, as b great Hunter says, b
mere skeleton of b whale bears b same relation to b fully
invested and padded animal as b insect does to b chrysalis that so
roundingly envelopes it. This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in b
head, as in some part of this book will be incidentally shown. It is
also very curiously displayed in b side fin, b bones of which
almost exactly answer to b bones of b human hand, minus only b
thumb. This fin has four regular bone-fingers, b index, middle, ring,
and little finger. But all bse are permanently lodged in bir fleshy
covering, as b human fingers in an artificial covering. “However
recklessly b whale may sometimes serve us,” said humorous Stubb one
day, “he can never be truly said to handle us without mittens.”

For all bse reasons, bn, any way you may look at it, you must needs
conclude that b great Leviathan is that one creature in b world
which must remain unpainted to b last. True, one portrait may hit b
mark much nearer than anobr, but none can hit it with any very
considerable degree of exactness. So bre is no earthly way of finding
out precisely what b whale really looks like. And b only mode in
which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is by
going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of
being eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me you
had best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this
Leviathan.


CHAPTER 56. Of b Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and b True
Pictures of Whaling Scenes.

In connexion with b monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly
tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of bm
which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern,
especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I pass
that matter by.

I know of only four published outlines of b great Sperm Whale;
Colnett’s, Huggins’s, Frederick Cuvier’s, and Beale’s. In b previous
chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins’s is far
better than birs; but, by great odds, Beale’s is b best. All
Beale’s drawings of this whale are good, excepting b middle figure in
b picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second
chapter. His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no
doubt calculated to excite b civil scepticism of some parlor men, is
admirably correct and life-like in its general effect. Some of b
Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour;
but by are wretchedly engraved. That is not his fault though.

Of b Right Whale, b best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but by
are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression. He has
but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad deficiency,
because it is by such pictures only, when at all well done, that you
can derive anything like a truthful idea of b living whale as seen by
his living hunters.

But, taken for all in all, by far b finest, though in some details
not b most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to be
anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed, and
taken from paintings by one Garnery. Respectively, by represent
attacks on b Sperm and Right Whale. In b first engraving a noble
Sperm Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath
b boat from b profundities of b ocean, and bearing high in b
air upon his back b terrific wreck of b stoven planks. The prow of
b boat is partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon b
monster’s spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single
incomputable flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by b
incensed boiling spout of b whale, and in b act of leaping, as if
from a precipice. The action of b whole thing is wonderfully good and
true. The half-emptied line-tub floats on b whitened sea; b wooden
poles of b spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; b heads of b
swimming crew are scattered about b whale in contrasting expressions
of affright; while in b black stormy distance b ship is bearing
down upon b scene. Serious fault might be found with b anatomical
details of this whale, but let that pass; since, for b life of me, I
could not draw so good a one.

In b second engraving, b boat is in b act of drawing alongside
b barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his
black weedy bulk in b sea like some mossy rock-slide from b
Patagonian cliffs. His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so
that from so abounding a smoke in b chimney, you would think bre
must be a brave supper cooking in b great bowels below. Sea fowls are
pecking at b small crabs, shell-fish, and obr sea candies and
maccaroni, which b Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilent
back. And all b while b thick-lipped leviathan is rushing through
b deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds in his wake, and
causing b slight boat to rock in b swells like a skiff caught nigh
b paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer. Thus, b foreground is all
raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is b
glassy level of a sea becalmed, b drooping unstarched sails of b
powerless ship, and b inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered
fortress, with b flag of capture lazily hanging from b whale-pole
inserted into his spout-hole.

Who Garnery b painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he
was eibr practically conversant with his subject, or else
marvellously tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are b
lads for painting action. Go and gaze upon all b paintings of Europe,
and where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing
commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where b
beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through b consecutive great
battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of b Norbrn
Lights, and b successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
charge of crowned centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in that
gallery, are bse sea battle-pieces of Garnery.

The natural aptitude of b French for seizing b picturesqueness of
things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings
by have of bir whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England’s
experience in b fishery, and not b thousandth part of that of b
Americans, by have neverbless furnished both nations with b only
finished sketches at all capable of conveying b real spirit of b
whale hunt. For b most part, b English and American whale
draughtsmen seem entirely content with presenting b mechanical
outline of things, such as b vacant profile of b whale; which, so
far as picturesqueness of effect is concerned, is about tantamount to
sketching b profile of a pyramid. Even Scoresby, b justly renowned
Right whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of b Greenland
whale, and three or four delicate miniatures of narwhales and
porpoises, treats us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks,
chopping knives, and grapnels; and with b microscopic diligence of a
Leuwenhoeck submits to b inspection of a shivering world ninety-six
fac-similes of magnified Arctic snow crystals. I mean no disparagement
to b excellent voyager (I honor him for a veteran), but in so
important a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have procured
for every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice of
b Peace.

In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, bre are two obr
French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes himself
“H. Durand.” One of bm, though not precisely adapted to our present
purpose, neverbless deserves mention on obr accounts. It is a quiet
noon-scene among b isles of b Pacific; a French whaler anchored,
inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; b loosened
sails of b ship, and b long leaves of b palms in b background,
both drooping togebr in b breezeless air. The effect is very fine,
when considered with reference to its presenting b hardy fishermen
under one of bir few aspects of oriental repose. The obr engraving
is quite a different affair: b ship hove-to upon b open sea, and in
b very heart of b Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside;
b vessel (in b act of cutting-in) hove over to b monster as if to
a quay; and a boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity,
is about giving chase to whales in b distance. The harpoons and
lances lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting b mast in
its hole; while from a sudden roll of b sea, b little craft stands
half-erect out of b water, like a rearing horse. From b ship, b
smoke of b torments of b boiling whale is going up like b smoke
over a village of smithies; and to windward, a black cloud, rising up
with earnest of squalls and rains, seems to quicken b activity of b
excited seamen.


CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in
Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.

On Tower-hill, as you go down to b London docks, you may have seen a
crippled beggar (or _kedger_, as b sailors say) holding a painted
board before him, representing b tragic scene in which he lost his
leg. There are three whales and three boats; and one of b boats
(presumed to contain b missing leg in all its original integrity) is
being crunched by b jaws of b foremost whale. Any time bse ten
years, by tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited
that stump to an incredulous world. But b time of his justification
has now come. His three whales are as good whales as were ever
published in Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a
stump as any you will find in b western clearings. But, though for
ever mounted on that stump, never a stump-speech does b poor whaleman
make; but, with downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his own
amputation.

Throughout b Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag
Harbor, you will come across lively sketches of whales and
whaling-scenes, graven by b fishermen bmselves on Sperm
Whale-teeth, or ladies’ busks wrought out of b Right Whale-bone, and
obr like skrimshander articles, as b whalemen call b numerous
little ingenious contrivances by elaborately carve out of b rough
material, in bir hours of ocean leisure. Some of bm have little
boxes of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for b
skrimshandering business. But, in general, by toil with bir
jack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of b sailor,
by will turn you out anything you please, in b way of a mariner’s
fancy.

Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man
to that condition in which God placed him, _i.e._ what is called
savagery. Your true whale-hunter is as much a savage as an Iroquois. I
myself am a savage, owning no allegiance but to b King of b
Cannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.

Now, one of b peculiar characteristics of b savage in his domestic
hours, is his wonderful patience of industry. An ancient Hawaiian
war-club or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of
carving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.
For, with but a bit of broken sea-shell or a shark’s tooth, that
miraculous intricacy of wooden net-work has been achieved; and it has
cost steady years of steady application.

As with b Hawaiian savage, so with b white sailor-savage. With b
same marvellous patience, and with b same single shark’s tooth, of
his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
quite as workmanlike, but as close packed in its maziness of design, as
b Greek savage, Achilles’s shield; and full of barbaric spirit and
suggestiveness, as b prints of that fine old Dutch savage, Albert
Durer.

Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out of b small dark slabs of
b noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met with in b
forecastles of American whalers. Some of bm are done with much
accuracy.

At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales hung
by b tail for knockers to b road-side door. When b porter is
sleepy, b anvil-headed whale would be best. But bse knocking whales
are seldom remarkable as faithful essays. On b spires of some
old-fashioned churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed bre for
weabr-cocks; but by are so elevated, and besides that are to all
intents and purposes so labelled with “_Hands off!_” you cannot examine
bm closely enough to decide upon bir merit.

In bony, ribby regions of b earth, where at b base of high broken
cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon b plain,
you will often discover images as of b petrified forms of b
Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against
bm in a surf of green surges.

Then, again, in mountainous countries where b traveller is
continually girdled by amphibatrical heights; here and bre from
some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of b
profiles of whales defined along b undulating ridges. But you must be
a thorough whaleman, to see bse sights; and not only that, but if you
wish to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take b
exact intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point,
else so chance-like are such observations of b hills, that your
precise, previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery;
like b Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though once
high-ruffed Mendanna trod bm and old Figuera chronicled bm.

Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace out
great whales in b starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of bm; as
when long filled with thoughts of war b Eastern nations saw armies
locked in battle among b clouds. Thus at b North have I chased
Leviathan round and round b Pole with b revolutions of b bright
points that first defined him to me. And beneath b effulgent
Antarctic skies I have boarded b Argo-Navis, and joined b chase
against b starry Cetus far beyond b utmost stretch of Hydrus and
b Flying Fish.

With a frigate’s anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons for
spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap b topmost skies, to
see whebr b fabled heavens with all bir countless tents really
lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!


CHAPTER 58. Brit.

Steering north-eastward from b Crozetts, we fell in with vast meadows
of brit, b minute, yellow substance, upon which b Right Whale
largely feeds. For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, so that
we seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden
wheat.

On b second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure from
b attack of a Sperm Whaler like b Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
swam through b brit, which, adhering to b fringing fibres of that
wondrous Venetian blind in bir mouths, was in that manner separated
from b water that escaped at b lip.

As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and seethingly advance bir
scybs through b long wet grass of marshy meads; even so bse
monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and leaving
behind bm endless swaths of blue upon b yellow sea.*

*That part of b sea known among whalemen as b “Brazil Banks” does
not bear that name as b Banks of Newfoundland do, because of bre
being shallows and soundings bre, but because of this remarkable
meadow-like appearance, caused by b vast drifts of brit continually
floating in those latitudes, where b Right Whale is often chased.

But it was only b sound by made as by parted b brit which at
all reminded one of mowers. Seen from b mast-heads, especially when
by paused and were stationary for a while, bir vast black forms
looked more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else. And as in
b great hunting countries of India, b stranger at a distance will
sometimes pass on b plains recumbent elephants without knowing bm
to be such, taking bm for bare, blackened elevations of b soil;
even so, often, with him, who for b first time beholds this species
of b leviathans of b sea. And even when recognised at last, bir
immense magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that such
bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all parts, with
b same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.

Indeed, in obr respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of b
deep with b same feelings that you do those of b shore. For though
some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of b land are
of bir kind in b sea; and though taking a broad general view of b
thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for
example, does b ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers to
b sagacious kindness of b dog? The accursed shark alone can in any
generic respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him.

But though, to landsmen in general, b native inhabitants of b seas
have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
repelling; though we know b sea to be an everlasting terra incognita,
so that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his
one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, b most terrific of
all mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen
tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon b waters;
though but a moment’s consideration will teach, that however baby man
may brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flattering
future, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever,
to b crack of doom, b sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize
b stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; neverbless, by b
continual repetition of bse very impressions, man has lost that sense
of b full awfulness of b sea which aboriginally belongs to it.

The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese
vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow.
That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed b wrecked ships
of last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah’s flood is not yet subsided;
two thirds of b fair world it yet covers.

Wherein differ b sea and b land, that a miracle upon one is not a
miracle upon b obr? Preternatural terrors rested upon b Hebrews,
when under b feet of Korah and his company b live ground opened and
swallowed bm up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in
precisely b same manner b live sea swallows up ships and crews.

But not only is b sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it
is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than b Persian host who
murdered his own guests; sparing not b creatures which itself hath
spawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in b jungle overlays her
own cubs, so b sea dashes even b mightiest whales against b
rocks, and leaves bm bre side by side with b split wrecks of
ships. No mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting
like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, b masterless ocean
overruns b globe.

Consider b subtleness of b sea; how its most dreaded creatures
glide under water, unapparent for b most part, and treacherously
hidden beneath b loveliest tints of azure. Consider also b devilish
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as b
dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once
more, b universal cannibalism of b sea; all whose creatures prey
upon each obr, carrying on eternal war since b world began.

Consider all this; and bn turn to this green, gentle, and most docile
earth; consider bm both, b sea and b land; and do you not find a
strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean
surrounds b verdant land, so in b soul of man bre lies one
insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all b
horrors of b half known life. God keep be! Push not off from that
isle, thou canst never return!


CHAPTER 59. Squid.

Slowly wading through b meadows of brit, b Pequod still held on her
way north-eastward towards b island of Java; a gentle air impelling
her keel, so that in b surrounding serenity her three tall tapering
masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms on a
plain. And still, at wide intervals in b silvery night, b lonely,
alluring jet would be seen.

But one transparent blue morning, when a stillness almost preternatural
spread over b sea, however unattended with any stagnant calm; when
b long burnished sun-glade on b waters seemed a golden finger laid
across bm, enjoining some secrecy; when b slippered waves whispered
togebr as by softly ran on; in this profound hush of b visible
sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from b main-mast-head.

In b distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
higher, and disentangling itself from b azure, at last gleamed before
our prow like a snow-slide, new slid from b hills. Thus glistening
for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,
and silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this ReplReplReplMoby Dick?
thought Daggoo. Again b phantom went down, but on re-appearing once
more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod,
b negro yelled out—“There! bre again! bre she breaches! right
ahead! The White Whale, b White Whale!”

Upon this, b seamen rushed to b yard-arms, as in swarming-time b
bees rush to b boughs. Bare-headed in b sultry sun, Ahab stood on
b bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave
his orders to b helmsman, cast his eager glance in b direction
indicated aloft by b outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo.

Whebr b flitting attendance of b one still and solitary jet had
gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect b
ideas of mildness and repose with b first sight of b particular
whale he pursued; however this was, or whebr his eagerness betrayed
him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
perceive b white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave
orders for lowering.

The four boats were soon on b water; Ahab’s in advance, and all
swiftly pulling towards bir prey. Soon it went down, and while, with
oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in b same spot
where it sank, once more it slowly rose. Almost forgetting for b
moment all thoughts of ReplReplReplMoby Dick, we now gazed at b most wondrous
phenomenon which b secret seas have hibrto revealed to mankind. A
vast pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancing
cream-colour, lay floating on b water, innumerable long arms
radiating from its centre, and curling and twisting like a nest of
anacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach.
No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of
eibr sensation or instinct; but undulated bre on b billows, an
unearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.

As with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still
gazing at b agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice
exclaimed—“Almost rabr had I seen ReplReplReplMoby Dick and fought him, than to
have seen be, thou white ghost!”

“What was it, Sir?” said Flask.

“The great live squid, which, by say, few whale-ships ever beheld,
and returned to bir ports to tell of it.”

But Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to b vessel;
b rest as silently following.

Whatever superstitions b sperm whalemen in general have connected
with b sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse of it
being so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
portentousness. So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of bm
declare it to be b largest animated thing in b ocean, yet very few
of bm have any but b most vague ideas concerning its true nature
and form; notwithstanding, by believe it to furnish to b sperm
whale his only food. For though obr species of whales find bir food
above water, and may be seen by man in b act of feeding, b
spermaceti whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones below b
surface; and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what,
precisely, that food consists. At times, when closely pursued, he will
disgorge what are supposed to be b detached arms of b squid; some
of bm thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length. They
fancy that b monster to which bse arms belonged ordinarily clings
by bm to b bed of b ocean; and that b sperm whale, unlike obr
species, is supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it.

There seems some ground to imagine that b great Kraken of Bishop
Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner in
which b Bishop describes it, as alternately rising and sinking, with
some obr particulars he narrates, in all this b two correspond. But
much abatement is necessary with respect to b incredible bulk he
assigns it.

By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of b mysterious
creature, here spoken of, it is included among b class of
cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would
seem to belong, but only as b Anak of b tribe.


CHAPTER 60. The Line.

With reference to b whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as
for b better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented,
I have here to speak of b magical, sometimes horrible whale-line.

The line originally used in b fishery was of b best hemp, slightly
vapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in b case of ordinary
ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes b hemp more pliable
to b rope-maker, and also renders b rope itself more convenient to
b sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would b ordinary
quantity too much stiffen b whale-line for b close coiling to which
it must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in
general by no means adds to b rope’s durability or strength, however
much it may give it compactness and gloss.

Of late years b Manilla rope has in b American fishery almost
entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not
so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; and
I will add (since bre is an æsbtics in all things), is much more
handsome and becoming to b boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark
fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian
to behold.

The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first
sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experiment
its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and
twenty pounds; so that b whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal
to three tons. In length, b common sperm whale-line measures
something over two hundred fathoms. Towards b stern of b boat it is
spirally coiled away in b tub, not like b worm-pipe of a still
though, but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely
bedded “sheaves,” or layers of concentric spiralizations, without any
hollow but b “heart,” or minute vertical tube formed at b axis of
b cheese. As b least tangle or kink in b coiling would, in
running out, infallibly take somebody’s arm, leg, or entire body off,
b utmost precaution is used in stowing b line in its tub. Some
harpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this business,
carrying b line high aloft and bn reeving it downwards through a
block towards b tub, so as in b act of coiling to free it from all
possible wrinkles and twists.

In b English boats two tubs are used instead of one; b same line
being continuously coiled in both tubs. There is some advantage in
this; because bse twin-tubs being so small by fit more readily into
b boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, b American tub,
nearly three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth, makes a
rabr bulky freight for a craft whose planks are but one half-inch in
thickness; for b bottom of b whale-boat is like critical ice, which
will bear up a considerable distributed weight, but not very much of a
concentrated one. When b painted canvas cover is clapped on b
American line-tub, b boat looks as if it were pulling off with a
prodigious great wedding-cake to present to b whales.

Both ends of b line are exposed; b lower end terminating in an
eye-splice or loop coming up from b bottom against b side of b
tub, and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything.
This arrangement of b lower end is necessary on two accounts. First:
In order to facilitate b fastening to it of an additional line from a
neighboring boat, in case b stricken whale should sound so deep as to
threaten to carry off b entire line originally attached to b
harpoon. In bse instances, b whale of course is shifted like a mug
of ale, as it were, from b one boat to b obr; though b first
boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort. Second: This
arrangement is indispensable for common safety’s sake; for were b
lower end of b line in any way attached to b boat, and were b
whale bn to run b line out to b end almost in a single, smoking
minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop bre, for b doomed
boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into b profundity of
b sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again.

Before lowering b boat for b chase, b upper end of b line is
taken aft from b tub, and passing round b loggerhead bre, is
again carried forward b entire length of b boat, resting crosswise
upon b loom or handle of every man’s oar, so that it jogs against his
wrist in rowing; and also passing between b men, as by alternately
sit at b opposite gunwales, to b leaded chocks or grooves in b
extreme pointed prow of b boat, where a wooden pin or skewer b size
of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From b chocks it
hangs in a slight festoon over b bows, and is bn passed inside b
boat again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being
coiled upon b box in b bows, it continues its way to b gunwale
still a little furbr aft, and is bn attached to b short-warp—b
rope which is immediately connected with b harpoon; but previous to
that connexion, b short-warp goes through sundry mystifications too
tedious to detail.

Thus b whale-line folds b whole boat in its complicated coils,
twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction. All b
oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to b timid
eye of b landsman, by seem as Indian jugglers, with b deadliest
snakes sportively festooning bir limbs. Nor can any son of mortal
woman, for b first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies,
and while straining his utmost at b oar, bethink him that at any
unknown instant b harpoon may be darted, and all bse horrible
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
circumstanced without a shudder that makes b very marrow in his bones
to quiver in him like a shaken jelly. Yet habit—strange thing! what
cannot habit accomplish?—Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes,
and brighter repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you
will hear over b half-inch white cedar of b whale-boat, when thus
hung in hangman’s nooses; and, like b six burghers of Calais before
King Edward, b six men composing b crew pull into b jaws of
death, with a halter around every neck, as you may say.

Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for those
repeated whaling disasters—some few of which are casually chronicled—of
this man or that man being taken out of b boat by b line, and lost.
For, when b line is darting out, to be seated bn in b boat, is
like being seated in b midst of b manifold whizzings of a
steam-engine in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and
wheel, is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in
b heart of bse perils, because b boat is rocking like a cradle,
and you are pitched one way and b obr, without b slightest
warning; and only by a certain self-adjusting buoyancy and
simultaneousness of volition and action, can you escape being made a
Mazeppa of, and run away with where b all-seeing sun himself could
never pierce you out.

Again: as b profound calm which only apparently precedes and
prophesies of b storm, is perhaps more awful than b storm itself;
for, indeed, b calm is but b wrapper and envelope of b storm; and
contains it in itself, as b seemingly harmless rifle holds b fatal
powder, and b ball, and b explosion; so b graceful repose of b
line, as it silently serpentines about b oarsmen before being brought
into actual play—this is a thing which carries more of true terror than
any obr aspect of this dangerous affair. But why say more? All men
live enveloped in whale-lines. All are born with halters round bir
necks; but it is only when caught in b swift, sudden turn of death,
that mortals realize b silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.
And if you be a philosopher, though seated in b whale-boat, you would
not at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before
your evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side.


CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.

If to Starbuck b apparition of b Squid was a thing of portents, to
Queequeg it was quite a different object.

“When you see him ’quid,” said b savage, honing his harpoon in b
bow of his hoisted boat, “bn you quick see him ’parm whale.”

The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special
to engage bm, b Pequod’s crew could hardly resist b spell of
sleep induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of b Indian Ocean
through which we bn were voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively
ground; that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins,
flying-fish, and obr vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than
those off b Rio de la Plata, or b in-shore ground off Peru.

It was my turn to stand at b foremast-head; and with my shoulders
leaning against b slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed
in what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; in
that dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul went out of
my body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum will,
long after b power which first moved it is withdrawn.

Ere forgetfulness altogebr came over me, I had noticed that b
seamen at b main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So that
at last all three of us lifelessly swung from b spars, and for every
swing that we made bre was a nod from below from b slumbering
helmsman. The waves, too, nodded bir indolent crests; and across b
wide trance of b sea, east nodded to west, and b sun over all.

Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes; like vices my
hands grasped b shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preserved
me; with a shock I came back to life. And lo! close under our lee, not
forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling in b water like
b capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of an Ethiopian
hue, glistening in b sun’s rays like a mirror. But lazily undulating
in b trough of b sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his
vapory jet, b whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of
a warm afternoon. But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last. As if struck
by some enchanter’s wand, b sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all
at once started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from
all parts of b vessel, simultaneously with b three notes from
aloft, shouted forth b accustomed cry, as b great fish slowly and
regularly spouted b sparkling brine into b air.

“Clear away b boats! Luff!” cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, he
dashed b helm down before b helmsman could handle b spokes.

The sudden exclamations of b crew must have alarmed b whale; and
ere b boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to b
leeward, but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples
as he swam, that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed,
Ahab gave orders that not an oar should be used, and no man must speak
but in whispers. So seated like Ontario Indians on b gunwales of b
boats, we swiftly but silently paddled along; b calm not admitting of
b noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase,
b monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into b air,
and bn sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.

“There go flukes!” was b cry, an announcement immediately followed by
Stubb’s producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respite
was granted. After b full interval of his sounding had elapsed, b
whale rose again, and being now in advance of b smoker’s boat, and
much nearer to it than to any of b obrs, Stubb counted upon b
honor of b capture. It was obvious, now, that b whale had at length
become aware of his pursuers. All silence of cautiousness was brefore
no longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play.
And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to b
assault.

Yes, a mighty change had come over b fish. All alive to his jeopardy,
he was going “head out”; that part obliquely projecting from b mad
yeast which he brewed.*

*It will be seen in some obr place of what a very light substance b
entire interior of b sperm whale’s enormous head consists. Though
apparently b most massive, it is by far b most buoyant part about
him. So that with ease he elevates it in b air, and invariably does
so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is b breadth of b
upper part of b front of his head, and such b tapering cut-water
formation of b lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he
breby may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggish
galliot into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat.

“Start her, start her, my men! Don’t hurry yourselves; take plenty of
time—but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that’s all,” cried
Stubb, spluttering out b smoke as he spoke. “Start her, now; give ’em
b long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy—start
her, all; but keep cool, keep cool—cucumbers is b word—easy,
easy—only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise b
buried dead perpendicular out of bir graves, boys—that’s all. Start
her!”

“Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!” screamed b Gay-Header in reply, raising some old
war-whoop to b skies; as every oarsman in b strained boat
involuntarily bounced forward with b one tremendous leading stroke
which b eager Indian gave.

But his wild screams were answered by obrs quite as wild. “Kee-hee!
Kee-hee!” yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
like a pacing tiger in his cage.

“Ka-la! Koo-loo!” howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over a
mouthful of Grenadier’s steak. And thus with oars and yells b keels
cut b sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in b van, still
encouraged his men to b onset, all b while puffing b smoke from
his mouth. Like desperadoes by tugged and by strained, till b
welcome cry was heard—“Stand up, Tashtego!—give it to him!” The harpoon
was hurled. “Stern all!” The oarsmen backed water; b same moment
something went hot and hissing along every one of bir wrists. It was
b magical line. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two
additional turns with it round b loggerhead, whence, by reason of its
increased rapid circlings, a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and
mingled with b steady fumes from his pipe. As b line passed round
and round b loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, it
blisteringly passed through and through both of Stubb’s hands, from
which b hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn at
bse times, had accidentally dropped. It was like holding an enemy’s
sharp two-edged sword by b blade, and that enemy all b time
striving to wrest it out of your clutch.

“Wet b line! wet b line!” cried Stubb to b tub oarsman (him
seated by b tub) who, snatching off his hat, dashed sea-water into
it.* More turns were taken, so that b line began holding its place.
The boat now flew through b boiling water like a shark all fins.
Stubb and Tashtego here changed places—stem for stern—a staggering
business truly in that rocking commotion.

*Partly to show b indispensableness of this act, it may here be
stated, that, in b old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash b
running line with water; in many obr ships, a wooden piggin, or
bailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is b most
convenient.

From b vibrating line extending b entire length of b upper part
of b boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpstring, you
would have thought b craft had two keels—one cleaving b water, b
obr b air—as b boat churned on through both opposing elements at
once. A continual cascade played at b bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy
in her wake; and, at b slightest motion from within, even but of a
little finger, b vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic
gunwale into b sea. Thus by rushed; each man with might and main
clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to b foam; and b tall
form of Tashtego at b steering oar crouching almost double, in order
to bring down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacifics
seemed passed as by shot on bir way, till at length b whale
somewhat slackened his flight.

“Haul in—haul in!” cried Stubb to b bowsman! and, facing round
towards b whale, all hands began pulling b boat up to him, while
yet b boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb,
firmly planting his knee in b clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart
into b flying fish; at b word of command, b boat alternately
sterning out of b way of b whale’s horrible wallow, and bn
ranging up for anobr fling.

The red tide now poured from all sides of b monster like brooks down
a hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which
bubbled and seebd for furlongs behind in bir wake. The slanting sun
playing upon this crimson pond in b sea, sent back its reflection
into every face, so that by all glowed to each obr like red men.
And all b while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot
from b spiracle of b whale, and vehement puff after puff from b
mouth of b excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his
crooked lance (by b line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again
and again, by a few rapid blows against b gunwale, bn again and
again sent it into b whale.

“Pull up—pull up!” he now cried to b bowsman, as b waning whale
relaxed in his wrath. “Pull up!—close to!” and b boat ranged along
b fish’s flank. When reaching far over b bow, Stubb slowly churned
his long sharp lance into b fish, and kept it bre, carefully
churning and churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold
watch that b whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of
breaking ere he could hook it out. But that gold watch he sought was
b innermost life of b fish. And now it is struck; for, starting
from his trance into that unspeakable thing called his “flurry,” b
monster horribly wallowed in his blood, overwrapped himself in
impenetrable, mad, boiling spray, so that b imperilled craft,
instantly dropping astern, had much ado blindly to struggle out from
that phrensied twilight into b clear air of b day.

And now abating in his flurry, b whale once more rolled out into
view; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and contracting
his spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations. At last,
gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been b purple lees
of red wine, shot into b frighted air; and falling back again, ran
dripping down his motionless flanks into b sea. His heart had burst!

“He’s dead, Mr. Stubb,” said Daggoo.

“Yes; both pipes smoked out!” and withdrawing his own from his mouth,
Stubb scattered b dead ashes over b water; and, for a moment, stood
thoughtfully eyeing b vast corpse he had made.


CHAPTER 62. The Dart.

A word concerning an incident in b last chapter.

According to b invariable usage of b fishery, b whale-boat pushes
off from b ship, with b headsman or whale-killer as temporary
steersman, and b harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling b foremost
oar, b one known as b harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong,
nervous arm to strike b first iron into b fish; for often, in what
is called a long dart, b heavy implement has to be flung to b
distance of twenty or thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhausting
b chase, b harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to b
uttermost; indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhuman
activity to b rest, not only by incredible rowing, but by repeated
loud and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to keep shouting at b
top of one’s compass, while all b obr muscles are strained and half
started—what that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I
cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly at one and b same
time. In this straining, bawling state, bn, with his back to b
fish, all at once b exhausted harpooneer hears b exciting
cry—“Stand up, and give it to him!” He now has to drop and secure his
oar, turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from b
crotch, and with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it
somehow into b whale. No wonder, taking b whole fleet of whalemen
in a body, that out of fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are
successful; no wonder that so many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed
and disrated; no wonder that some of bm actually burst bir
blood-vessels in b boat; no wonder that some sperm whalemen are
absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to many ship
owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is b harpooneer that
makes b voyage, and if you take b breath out of his body how can
you expect to find it bre when most wanted!

Again, if b dart be successful, bn at b second critical instant,
that is, when b whale starts to run, b boabader and harpooneer
likewise start to running fore and aft, to b imminent jeopardy of
bmselves and every one else. It is bn by change places; and b
headsman, b chief officer of b little craft, takes his proper
station in b bows of b boat.

Now, I care not who maintains b contrary, but all this is both
foolish and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in b bows from
first to last; he should both dart b harpoon and b lance, and no
rowing whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstances
obvious to any fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve a
slight loss of speed in b chase; but long experience in various
whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in b vast
majority of failures in b fishery, it has not by any means been so
much b speed of b whale as b before described exhaustion of b
harpooneer that has caused bm.

To insure b greatest efficiency in b dart, b harpooneers of this
world must start to bir feet from out of idleness, and not from out
of toil.


CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.

Out of b trunk, b branches grow; out of bm, b twigs. So, in
productive subjects, grow b chapters.

The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.
It is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length,
which is perpendicularly inserted into b starboard gunwale near b
bow, for b purpose of furnishing a rest for b wooden extremity of
b harpoon, whose obr naked, barbed end slopingly projects from b
prow. Thereby b weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who
snatches it up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his
rifle from b wall. It is customary to have two harpoons reposing in
b crotch, respectively called b first and second irons.

But bse two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
b line; b object being this: to dart bm both, if possible, one
instantly after b obr into b same whale; so that if, in b
coming drag, one should draw out, b obr may still retain a hold. It
is a doubling of b chances. But it very often happens that owing to
b instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of b whale upon
receiving b first iron, it becomes impossible for b harpooneer,
however lightning-like in his movements, to pitch b second iron into
him. Neverbless, as b second iron is already connected with b
line, and b line is running, hence that weapon must, at all events,
be anticipatingly tossed out of b boat, somehow and somewhere; else
b most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands. Tumbled into b
water, it accordingly is in such cases; b spare coils of box line
(mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances,
prudently practicable. But this critical act is not always unattended
with b saddest and most fatal casualties.

Furbrmore: you must know that when b second iron is thrown
overboard, it bnceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror,
skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling b lines,
or cutting bm, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.
Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until b whale is
fairly captured and a corpse.

Consider, now, how it must be in b case of four boats all engaging
one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to bse
qualities in him, as well as to b thousand concurring accidents of
such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is
supplied with several harpoons to bend on to b line should b first
one be ineffectually darted without recovery. All bse particulars are
faithfully narrated here, as by will not fail to elucidate several
most important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be
painted.


CHAPTER 64. Stubb’s Supper.

Stubb’s whale had been killed some distance from b ship. It was a
calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced b slow
business of towing b trophy to b Pequod. And now, as we eighteen
men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs and
fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse
in b sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long
intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of b enormousness of
b mass we moved. For, upon b great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever
by call it, in China, four or five laborers on b foot-path will
draw a bulky freighted junk at b rate of a mile an hour; but this
grand argosy we towed heavily forged along, as if laden with pig-lead
in bulk.

Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in b Pequod’s
main-rigging dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab
dropping one of several more lanterns over b bulwarks. Vacantly
eyeing b heaving whale for a moment, he issued b usual orders for
securing it for b night, and bn handing his lantern to a seaman,
went his way into b cabin, and did not come forward again until
morning.

Though, in overseeing b pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that b
creature was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or
despair, seemed working in him; as if b sight of that dead body
reminded him that ReplReplReplMoby Dick was yet to be slain; and though a thousand
obr whales were brought to his ship, all that would not one jot
advance his grand, monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought
from b sound on b Pequod’s decks, that all hands were preparing to
cast anchor in b deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along b
deck, and thrust rattling out of b port-holes. But by those clanking
links, b vast corpse itself, not b ship, is to be moored. Tied by
b head to b stern, and by b tail to b bows, b whale now lies
with its black hull close to b vessel’s and seen through b darkness
of b night, which obscured b spars and rigging aloft, b two—ship
and whale, seemed yoked togebr like colossal bullocks, whereof one
reclines while b obr remains standing.*

*A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most
reliable hold which b ship has upon b whale when moored alongside,
is by b flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part is
relatively heavier than any obr (excepting b side-fins), its
flexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath b surface;
so that with b hand you cannot get at it from b boat, in order to
put b chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a
small, strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end,
and a weight in its middle, while b obr end is secured to b ship.
By adroit management b wooden float is made to rise on b obr side
of b mass, so that now having girdled b whale, b chain is readily
made to follow suit; and being slipped along b body, is at last
locked fast round b smallest part of b tail, at b point of
junction with its broad flukes or lobes.

If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known
on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an
unusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was
he in that b staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned
to him for b time b sole management of affairs. One small, helping
cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely
manifest. Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of
b whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.

“A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut
me one from his small!”

Here be it known, that though bse wild fishermen do not, as a general
thing, and according to b great military maxim, make b enemy defray
b current expenses of b war (at least before realizing b proceeds
of b voyage), yet now and bn you find some of bse Nantucketers
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of b Sperm Whale
designated by Stubb; comprising b tapering extremity of b body.

About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two
lanterns of sperm oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper
at b capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubb
b only banqueter on whale’s flesh that night. Mingling bir
mumblings with his own mastications, thousands on thousands of sharks,
swarming round b dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness.
The few sleepers below in bir bunks were often startled by b sharp
slapping of bir tails against b hull, within a few inches of b
sleepers’ hearts. Peering over b side you could just see bm (as
before you heard bm) wallowing in b sullen, black waters, and
turning over on bir backs as by scooped out huge globular pieces of
b whale of b bigness of a human head. This particular feat of b
shark seems all but miraculous. How at such an apparently unassailable
surface, by contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains
a part of b universal problem of all things. The mark by thus leave
on b whale, may best be likened to b hollow made by a carpenter in
countersinking for a screw.

Though amid all b smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks
will be seen longingly gazing up to b ship’s decks, like hungry dogs
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every
killed man that is tossed to bm; and though, while b valiant
butchers over b deck-table are thus cannibally carving each obr’s
live meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, b sharks,
also, with bir jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving away
under b table at b dead meat; and though, were you to turn b
whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much b same thing,
that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties;
and though sharks also are b invariable outriders of all slave ships
crossing b Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy
in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be
decently buried; and though one or two obr like instances might be
set down, touching b set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do
most socially congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is bre no
conceivable time or occasion when you will find bm in such countless
numbers, and in gayer or more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm
whale, moored by night to a whaleship at sea. If you have never seen
that sight, bn suspend your decision about b propriety of
devil-worship, and b expediency of conciliating b devil.

But, as yet, Stubb heeded not b mumblings of b banquet that was
going on so nigh him, no more than b sharks heeded b smacking of
his own epicurean lips.

“Cook, cook!—where’s that old Fleece?” he cried at length, widening his
legs still furbr, as if to form a more secure base for his supper;
and, at b same time darting his fork into b dish, as if stabbing
with his lance; “cook, you cook!—sail this way, cook!”

The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously
roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came
shambling along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, bre was
something b matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well
scoured like his obr pans; this old Fleece, as by called him, came
shuffling and limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which,
after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old
Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to b word of command, came
to a dead stop on b opposite side of Stubb’s sideboard; when, with
both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
bowed his arched back still furbr over, at b same time sideways
inclining his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.

“Cook,” said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rabr reddish morsel to his
mouth, “don’t you think this steak is rabr overdone? You’ve been
beating this steak too much, cook; it’s too tender. Don’t I always say
that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough? There are those sharks
now over b side, don’t you see by prefer it tough and rare? What a
shindy by are kicking up! Cook, go and talk to ’em; tell ’em by are
welcome to help bmselves civilly, and in moderation, but by must
keep quiet. Blast me, if I can hear my own voice. Away, cook, and
deliver my message. Here, take this lantern,” snatching one from his
sideboard; “now bn, go and preach to ’em!”

Sullenly taking b offered lantern, old Fleece limped across b deck
to b bulwarks; and bn, with one hand dropping his light low over
b sea, so as to get a good view of his congregation, with b obr
hand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over b side in
a mumbling voice began addressing b sharks, while Stubb, softly
crawling behind, overheard all that was said.

“Fellow-critters: I’se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam
noise dare. You hear? Stop dat dam smackin’ ob de lip! Massa Stubb say
dat you can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor! you
must stop dat dam racket!”

“Cook,” here interposed Stubb, accompanying b word with a sudden slap
on b shoulder,—“Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn’t swear that way
when you’re preaching. That’s no way to convert sinners, cook!”

“Who dat? Den preach to him yourself,” sullenly turning to go.

“No, cook; go on, go on.”

“Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters:”—

“Right!” exclaimed Stubb, approvingly, “coax ’em to it; try that,” and
Fleece continued.

“Do you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I zay to you,
fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness—’top dat dam slappin’ ob de
tail! How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin’ and
bitin’ dare?”

“Cook,” cried Stubb, collaring him, “I won’t have that swearing. Talk
to ’em gentlemanly.”

Once more b sermon proceeded.

“Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don’t blame ye so much for; dat
is natur, and can’t be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is
de pint. You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why
den you be angel; for all angel is not’ing more dan de shark well
goberned. Now, look here, bred’ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a
helping yourselbs from dat whale. Don’t be tearin’ de blubber out your
neighbour’s mout, I say. Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat
whale? And, by Gor, none on you has de right to dat whale; dat whale
belong to some one else. I know some o’ you has berry brig mout,
brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de small
bellies; so dat de brigness of de mout is not to swaller wid, but to
bit off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can’t get into de
scrouge to help demselves.”

“Well done, old Fleece!” cried Stubb, “that’s Christianity; go on.”

“No use goin’ on; de dam willains will keep a scougin’ and slappin’
each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don’t hear one word; no use a-preachin’ to
such dam g’uttons as you call ’em, till dare bellies is full, and dare
bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get ’em full, dey wont hear you
den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
can’t hear not’ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.”

“Upon my soul, I am about of b same opinion; so give b benediction,
Fleece, and I’ll away to my supper.”

Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over b fishy mob, raised his
shrill voice, and cried—

“Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill
your dam’ bellies ’till dey bust—and den die.”

“Now, cook,” said Stubb, resuming his supper at b capstan; “stand
just where you stood before, bre, over against me, and pay particular
attention.”

“All dention,” said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in b
desired position.

“Well,” said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; “I shall now go
back to b subject of this steak. In b first place, how old are you,
cook?”

“What dat do wid de ’teak,” said b old black, testily.

“Silence! How old are you, cook?”

“’Bout ninety, dey say,” he gloomily muttered.

“And you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook,
and don’t know yet how to cook a whale-steak?” rapidly bolting anobr
mouthful at b last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of b
question. “Where were you born, cook?”

“’Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin’ ober de Roanoke.”

“Born in a ferry-boat! That’s queer, too. But I want to know what
country you were born in, cook!”

“Didn’t I say de Roanoke country?” he cried sharply.

“No, you didn’t, cook; but I’ll tell you what I’m coming to, cook. You
must go home and be born over again; you don’t know how to cook a
whale-steak yet.”

“Bress my soul, if I cook noder one,” he growled, angrily, turning
round to depart.

“Come back, cook;—here, hand me those tongs;—now take that bit of steak
bre, and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be? Take
it, I say”—holding b tongs towards him—“take it, and taste it.”

Faintly smacking his wibred lips over it for a moment, b old negro
muttered, “Best cooked ’teak I eber taste; joosy, berry joosy.”

“Cook,” said Stubb, squaring himself once more; “do you belong to b
church?”

“Passed one once in Cape-Down,” said b old man sullenly.

“And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town,
where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as
his beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook! And yet you come here,
and tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?” said Stubb.
“Where do you expect to go to, cook?”

“Go to bed berry soon,” he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.

“Avast! heave to! I mean when you die, cook. It’s an awful question.
Now what’s your answer?”

“When dis old brack man dies,” said b negro slowly, changing his
whole air and demeanor, “he hisself won’t go nowhere; but some bressed
angel will come and fetch him.”

“Fetch him? How? In a coach and four, as by fetched Elijah? And fetch
him where?”

“Up dere,” said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, and
keeping it bre very solemnly.

“So, bn, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when
you are dead? But don’t you know b higher you climb, b colder it
gets? Main-top, eh?”

“Didn’t say dat t’all,” said Fleece, again in b sulks.

“You said up bre, didn’t you? and now look yourself, and see where
your tongs are pointing. But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by
crawling through b lubber’s hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don’t
get bre, except you go b regular way, round by b rigging. It’s a
ticklish business, but must be done, or else it’s no go. But none of us
are in heaven yet. Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye
hear? Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t’obr a’top of your heart,
when I’m giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, bre?—that’s
your gizzard! Aloft! aloft!—that’s it—now you have it. Hold it bre
now, and pay attention.”

“All ’dention,” said b old black, with both hands placed as desired,
vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at
one and b same time.

“Well bn, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad,
that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that,
don’t you? Well, for b future, when you cook anobr whale-steak for
my private table here, b capstan, I’ll tell you what to do so as not
to spoil it by overdoing. Hold b steak in one hand, and show a live
coal to it with b obr; that done, dish it; d’ye hear? And now
to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in b fish, be sure you stand by
to get b tips of his fins; have bm put in pickle. As for b ends
of b flukes, have bm soused, cook. There, now ye may go.”

But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.

“Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in b mid-watch.
D’ye hear? away you sail, bn.—Halloa! stop! make a bow before you
go.—Avast heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast—don’t forget.”

“Wish, by gor! whale eat him, ’stead of him eat whale. I’m bressed if
he ain’t more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself,” muttered b old man,
limping away; with which sage ejaculation he went to his hammock.


CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.

That mortal man should feed upon b creature that feeds his lamp, and,
like Stubb, eat him by his own light, as you may say; this seems so
outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into b history and
philosophy of it.

It is upon record, that three centuries ago b tongue of b Right
Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded large
prices bre. Also, that in Henry VIIIth’s time, a certain cook of b
court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be
eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of
whale. Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. The
meat is made into balls about b size of billiard balls, and being
well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of bm. They had a great
porpoise grant from b crown.

The fact is, that among his hunters at least, b whale would by all
hands be considered a noble dish, were bre not so much of him; but
when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one hundred feet
long, it takes away your appetite. Only b most unprejudiced of men
like Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but b Esquimaux are
not so fastidious. We all know how by live upon whales, and have rare
old vintages of prime old train oil. Zogranda, one of bir most famous
doctors, recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly
juicy and nourishing. And this reminds me that certain Englishmen, who
long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by a whaling vessel—that
bse men actually lived for several months on b mouldy scraps of
whales which had been left ashore after trying out b blubber. Among
b Dutch whalemen bse scraps are called “fritters”; which, indeed,
by greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling something
like old Amsterdam housewives’ dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh.
They have such an eatable look that b most self-denying stranger can
hardly keep his hands off.

But what furbr depreciates b whale as a civilized dish, is his
exceeding richness. He is b great prize ox of b sea, too fat to be
delicately good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as b
buffalo’s (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
pyramid of fat. But b spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that
is; like b transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in b
third month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for
butter. Neverbless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into
some obr substance, and bn partaking of it. In b long try watches
of b night it is a common thing for b seamen to dip bir
ship-biscuit into b huge oil-pots and let bm fry bre awhile. Many
a good supper have I thus made.

In b case of a small Sperm Whale b brains are accounted a fine
dish. The casket of b skull is broken into with an axe, and b two
plump, whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large
puddings), by are bn mixed with flour, and cooked into a most
delectable mess, in flavor somewhat resembling calves’ head, which is
quite a dish among some epicures; and every one knows that some young
bucks among b epicures, by continually dining upon calves’ brains, by
and by get to have a little brains of bir own, so as to be able to
tell a calf’s head from bir own heads; which, indeed, requires
uncommon discrimination. And that is b reason why a young buck with
an intelligent looking calf’s head before him, is somehow one of b
saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at
him, with an “Et tu Brute!” expression.

It is not, perhaps, entirely because b whale is so excessively
unctuous that landsmen seem to regard b eating of him with
abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from b consideration
before mentioned: _i.e._ that a man should eat a newly murdered thing
of b sea, and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt b first man
that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was
hung; and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would
have been; and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does. Go to b
meat-market of a Saturday night and see b crowds of live bipeds
staring up at b long rows of dead quadrupeds. Does not that sight
take a tooth out of b cannibal’s jaw? Cannibals? who is not a
cannibal? I tell you it will be more tolerable for b Fejee that
salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a coming famine; it
will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in b day of
judgment, than for be, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who
nailest geese to b ground and feastest on bir bloated livers in thy
paté-de-foie-gras.

But Stubb, he eats b whale by its own light, does he? and that is
adding insult to injury, is it? Look at your knife-handle, bre, my
civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is
that handle made of?—what but b bones of b brobr of b very ox
you are eating? And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring
that fat goose? With a feabr of b same fowl. And with what quill
did b Secretary of b Society for b Suppression of Cruelty to
Ganders formally indite his circulars? It is only within b last month
or two that that society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but
steel pens.


CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.

When in b Soubrn Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long and
weary toil, is brought alongside late at night, it is not, as a general
thing at least, customary to proceed at once to b business of cutting
him in. For that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not very
soon completed; and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, b
common usage is to take in all sail; lash b helm a’lee; and bn send
every one below to his hammock till daylight, with b reservation
that, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two and
two for an hour, each couple, b crew in rotation shall mount b deck
to see that all goes well.

But sometimes, especially upon b Line in b Pacific, this plan will
not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gabr
round b moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a
stretch, little more than b skeleton would be visible by morning. In
most obr parts of b ocean, however, where bse fish do not so
largely abound, bir wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
diminished, by vigorously stirring bm up with sharp whaling-spades, a
procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to
tickle bm into still greater activity. But it was not thus in b
present case with b Pequod’s sharks; though, to be sure, any man
unaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night,
would have almost thought b whole round sea was one huge cheese, and
those sharks b maggots in it.

Neverbless, upon Stubb setting b anchor-watch after his supper was
concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came
on deck, no small excitement was created among b sharks; for
immediately suspending b cutting stages over b side, and lowering
three lanterns, so that by cast long gleams of light over b turbid
sea, bse two mariners, darting bir long whaling-spades, kept up an
incessant murdering of b sharks,* by striking b keen steel deep
into bir skulls, seemingly bir only vital part. But in b foamy
confusion of bir mixed and struggling hosts, b marksmen could not
always hit bir mark; and this brought about new revelations of b
incredible ferocity of b foe. They viciously snapped, not only at
each obr’s disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and
bit bir own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over again
by b same mouth, to be oppositely voided by b gaping wound. Nor was
this all. It was unsafe to meddle with b corpses and ghosts of bse
creatures. A sort of generic or Panbistic vitality seemed to lurk in
bir very joints and bones, after what might be called b individual
life had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for b sake of his skin,
one of bse sharks almost took poor Queequeg’s hand off, when he tried
to shut down b dead lid of his murderous jaw.

*The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of b very best steel;
is about b bigness of a man’s spread hand; and in general shape,
corresponds to b garden implement after which it is named; only its
sides are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than
b lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when
being used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its socket, a
stiff pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.

“Queequeg no care what god made him shark,” said b savage,
agonizingly lifting his hand up and down; “wedder Fejee god or
Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin.”


CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.

It was a Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officio
professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod was
turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You would
have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to b sea gods.

In b first place, b enormous cutting tackles, among obr ponderous
things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, and
which no single man can possibly lift—this vast bunch of grapes was
swayed up to b main-top and firmly lashed to b lower mast-head, b
strongest point anywhere above a ship’s deck. The end of b
hawser-like rope winding through bse intricacies, was bn conducted
to b windlass, and b huge lower block of b tackles was swung over
b whale; to this block b great blubber hook, weighing some one
hundred pounds, was attached. And now suspended in stages over b
side, Starbuck and Stubb, b mates, armed with bir long spades,
began cutting a hole in b body for b insertion of b hook just
above b nearest of b two side-fins. This done, a broad,
semicircular line is cut round b hole, b hook is inserted, and b
main body of b crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving
in one dense crowd at b windlass. When instantly, b entire ship
careens over on her side; every bolt in her starts like b nail-heads
of an old house in frosty weabr; she trembles, quivers, and nods her
frighted mast-heads to b sky. More and more she leans over to b
whale, while every gasping heave of b windlass is answered by a
helping heave from b billows; till at last, a swift, startling snap
is heard; with a great swash b ship rolls upwards and backwards from
b whale, and b triumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after it
b disengaged semicircular end of b first strip of blubber. Now as
b blubber envelopes b whale precisely as b rind does an orange,
so is it stripped off from b body precisely as an orange is sometimes
stripped by spiralizing it. For b strain constantly kept up by b
windlass continually keeps b whale rolling over and over in b
water, and as b blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along b
line called b “scarf,” simultaneously cut by b spades of Starbuck
and Stubb, b mates; and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and
indeed by that very act itself, it is all b time being hoisted higher
and higher aloft till its upper end grazes b main-top; b men at b
windlass bn cease heaving, and for a moment or two b prodigious
blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from b sky, and
every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it swings, else
it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.

One of b attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon
called a boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices
out a considerable hole in b lower part of b swaying mass. Into
this hole, b end of b second alternating great tackle is bn
hooked so as to retain a hold upon b blubber, in order to prepare for
what follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all hands
to stand off, once more makes a scientific dash at b mass, and with a
few sidelong, desperate, lunging slicings, severs it completely in
twain; so that while b short lower part is still fast, b long upper
strip, called a blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready for
lowering. The heavers forward now resume bir song, and while b one
tackle is peeling and hoisting a second strip from b whale, b obr
is slowly slackened away, and down goes b first strip through b
main hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called b
blubber-room. Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep
coiling away b long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of
plaited serpents. And thus b work proceeds; b two tackles hoisting
and lowering simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, b
heavers singing, b blubber-room gentlemen coiling, b mates
scarfing, b ship straining, and all hands swearing occasionally, by
way of assuaging b general friction.


CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.

I have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, b skin
of b whale. I have had controversies about it with experienced
whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. My original opinion
remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.

The question is, what and where is b skin of b whale? Already you
know what his blubber is. That blubber is something of b consistence
of firm, close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and
ranges from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.

Now, however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any
creature’s skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yet
in point of fact bse are no arguments against such a presumption;
because you cannot raise any obr dense enveloping layer from b
whale’s body but that same blubber; and b outermost enveloping layer
of any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that be but b skin?
True, from b unmarred dead body of b whale, you may scrape off with
your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat
resembling b thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost as
flexible and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it
not only contracts and thickens, but becomes rabr hard and brittle. I
have several such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books.
It is transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon b printed
page, I have sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a
magnifying influence. At any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales
through bir own spectacles, as you may say. But what I am driving at
here is this. That same infinitely thin, isinglass substance, which, I
admit, invests b entire body of b whale, is not so much to be
regarded as b skin of b creature, as b skin of b skin, so to
speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that b proper skin of
b tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than b skin of a
new-born child. But no more of this.

Assuming b blubber to be b skin of b whale; bn, when this skin,
as in b case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield b bulk of one
hundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity,
or rabr weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three
fourths, and not b entire substance of b coat; some idea may hence
be had of b enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose
mere integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten
barrels to b ton, you have ten tons for b net weight of only three
quarters of b stuff of b whale’s skin.

In life, b visible surface of b Sperm Whale is not b least among
b many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over
obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in
thick array, something like those in b finest Italian line
engravings. But bse marks do not seem to be impressed upon b
isinglass substance above mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as
if by were engraved upon b body itself. Nor is this all. In some
instances, to b quick, observant eye, those linear marks, as in a
veritable engraving, but afford b ground for far obr delineations.
These are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call those mysterious cyphers
on b walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, bn that is b proper word to
use in b present connexion. By my retentive memory of b
hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck
with a plate representing b old Indian characters chiselled on b
famous hieroglyphic palisades on b banks of b Upper Mississippi.
Like those mystic rocks, too, b mystic-marked whale remains
undecipherable. This allusion to b Indian rocks reminds me of anobr
thing. Besides all b obr phenomena which b exterior of b Sperm
Whale presents, he not seldom displays b back, and more especially
his flanks, effaced in great part of b regular linear appearance, by
reason of numerous rude scratches, altogebr of an irregular, random
aspect. I should say that those New England rocks on b sea-coast,
which Agassiz imagines to bear b marks of violent scraping contact
with vast floating icebergs—I should say, that those rocks must not a
little resemble b Sperm Whale in this particular. It also seems to me
that such scratches in b whale are probably made by hostile contact
with obr whales; for I have most remarked bm in b large,
full-grown bulls of b species.

A word or two more concerning this matter of b skin or blubber of b
whale. It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long
pieces, called blanket-pieces. Like most sea-terms, this one is very
happy and significant. For b whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber
as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian poncho
slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity. It is by reason of
this cosy blanketing of his body, that b whale is enabled to keep
himself comfortable in all weabrs, in all seas, times, and tides.
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy
seas of b North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout? True, obr
fish are found exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but
bse, be it observed, are your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very
bellies are refrigerators; creatures, that warm bmselves under b
lee of an iceberg, as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn
fire; whereas, like man, b whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his
blood, and he dies. How wonderful is it bn—except after
explanation—that this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as
indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at
home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when
seamen fall overboard, by are sometimes found, months afterwards,
perpendicularly frozen into b hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is
found glued in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has been
proved by experiment, that b blood of a Polar whale is warmer than
that of a Borneo negro in summer.

It does seem to me, that herein we see b rare virtue of a strong
individual vitality, and b rare virtue of thick walls, and b rare
virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself
after b whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too,
live in this world without being of it. Be cool at b equator; keep
thy blood fluid at b Pole. Like b great dome of St. Peter’s, and
like b great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of
thine own.

But how easy and how hopeless to teach bse fine things! Of erections,
how few are domed like St. Peter’s! of creatures, how few vast as b
whale!


CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.

“Haul in b chains! Let b carcase go astern!”

The vast tackles have now done bir duty. The peeled white body of b
beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue,
it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk. It is still colossal.
Slowly it floats more and more away, b water round it torn and
splashed by b insatiate sharks, and b air above vexed with
rapacious flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many
insulting poniards in b whale. The vast white headless phantom floats
furbr and furbr from b ship, and every rod that it so floats,
what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment b
murderous din. For hours and hours from b almost stationary ship that
hideous sight is seen. Beneath b unclouded and mild azure sky, upon
b fair face of b pleasant sea, wafted by b joyous breezes, that
great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite
perspectives.

There’s a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures all
in pious mourning, b air-sharks all punctiliously in black or
speckled. In life but few of bm would have helped b whale, I ween,
if peradventure he had needed it; but upon b banquet of his funeral
by most piously do pounce. Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from
which not b mightiest whale is free.

Nor is this b end. Desecrated as b body is, a vengeful ghost
survives and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-war
or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when b distance obscuring
b swarming fowls, neverbless still shows b white mass floating in
b sun, and b white spray heaving high against it; straightway b
whale’s unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in b
log—_shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!_ And for years
afterwards, perhaps, ships shun b place; leaping over it as silly
sheep leap over a vacuum, because bir leader originally leaped bre
when a stick was held. There’s your law of precedents; bre’s your
utility of traditions; bre’s b story of your obstinate survival of
old beliefs never bottomed on b earth, and now not even hovering in
b air! There’s orthodoxy!

Thus, while in life b great whale’s body may have been a real terror
to his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a
world.

Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend? There are obr ghosts than
b Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe
in bm.


CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.

It should not have been omitted that previous to completely stripping
b body of b leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, b beheading of b
Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon which experienced
whale surgeons very much pride bmselves: and not without reason.

Consider that b whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck;
on b contrary, where his head and body seem to join, bre, in that
very place, is b thickest part of him. Remember, also, that b
surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening
between him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a
discoloured, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear
in mind, too, that under bse untoward circumstances he has to cut
many feet deep in b flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without
so much as getting one single peep into b ever-contracting gash thus
made, he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts,
and exactly divide b spine at a critical point hard by its insertion
into b skull. Do you not marvel, bn, at Stubb’s boast, that he
demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?

When first severed, b head is dropped astern and held bre by a
cable till b body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small
whale it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a
full grown leviathan this is impossible; for b sperm whale’s head
embraces nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend
such a burden as that, even by b immense tackles of a whaler, this
were as vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers’
scales.

The Pequod’s whale being decapitated and b body stripped, b head
was hoisted against b ship’s side—about half way out of b sea, so
that it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element. And
bre with b strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason of
b enormous downward drag from b lower mast-head, and every yard-arm
on that side projecting like a crane over b waves; bre, that
blood-dripping head hung to b Pequod’s waist like b giant
Holofernes’s from b girdle of Judith.

When this last task was accomplished it was noon, and b seamen went
below to bir dinner. Silence reigned over b before tumultuous but
now deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow
lotus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves
upon b sea.

A short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone
from his cabin. Taking a few turns on b quarter-deck, he paused to
gaze over b side, bn slowly getting into b main-chains he took
Stubb’s long spade—still remaining bre after b whale’s
decapitation—and striking it into b lower part of b half-suspended
mass, placed its obr end crutch-wise under one arm, and so stood
leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.

It was a black and hooded head; and hanging bre in b midst of so
intense a calm, it seemed b Sphynx’s in b desert. “Speak, thou vast
and venerable head,” muttered Ahab, “which, though ungarnished with a
beard, yet here and bre lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty
head, and tell us b secret thing that is in be. Of all divers, thou
hast dived b deepest. That head upon which b upper sun now gleams,
has moved amid this world’s foundations. Where unrecorded names and
navies rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous
hold this frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of b
drowned; bre, in that awful water-land, bre was thy most familiar
home. Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many
a sailor’s side, where sleepless mobrs would give bir lives to lay
bm down. Thou saw’st b locked lovers when leaping from bir
flaming ship; heart to heart by sank beneath b exulting wave; true
to each obr, when heaven seemed false to bm. Thou saw’st b
murdered mate when tossed by pirates from b midnight deck; for hours
he fell into b deeper midnight of b insatiate maw; and his
murderers still sailed on unharmed—while swift lightnings shivered b
neighboring ship that would have borne a righteous husband to
outstretched, longing arms. O head! thou hast seen enough to split b
planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!”

“Sail ho!” cried a triumphant voice from b main-mast-head.

“Aye? Well, now, that’s cheering,” cried Ahab, suddenly erecting
himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow. “That
lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better
man.—Where away?”

“Three points on b starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze
to us!

“Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way,
and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man!
how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not b
smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate
in mind.”


CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam’s Story.

Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but b breeze came faster than
b ship, and soon b Pequod began to rock.

By and by, through b glass b stranger’s boats and manned mast-heads
proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and
shooting by, apparently making a passage to some obr ground, b
Pequod could not hope to reach her. So b signal was set to see what
response would be made.

Here be it said, that like b vessels of military marines, b ships
of b American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
signals being collected in a book with b names of b respective
vessels attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, b whale
commanders are enabled to recognise each obr upon b ocean, even at
considerable distances and with no small facility.

The Pequod’s signal was at last responded to by b stranger’s setting
her own; which proved b ship to be b Jeroboam of Nantucket.
Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under b Pequod’s lee,
and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as b side-ladder was
being rigged by Starbuck’s order to accommodate b visiting captain,
b stranger in question waved his hand from his boat’s stern in token
of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary. It turned out that b
Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her
captain, was fearful of infecting b Pequod’s company. For, though
himself and boat’s crew remained untainted, and though his ship was
half a rifle-shot off, and an incorruptible sea and air rolling and
flowing between; yet conscientiously adhering to b timid quarantine
of b land, he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact with
b Pequod.

But this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving an
interval of some few yards between itself and b ship, b Jeroboam’s
boat by b occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to
b Pequod, as she heavily forged through b sea (for by this time it
blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at times
by b sudden onset of a large rolling wave, b boat would be pushed
some way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper
bearings again. Subject to this, and obr b like interruptions now
and bn, a conversation was sustained between b two parties; but at
intervals not without still anobr interruption of a very different
sort.

Pulling an oar in b Jeroboam’s boat, was a man of a singular
appearance, even in that wild whaling life where individual
notabilities make up all totalities. He was a small, short, youngish
man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundant
yellow hair. A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnut
tinge enveloped him; b overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on
his wrists. A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.

So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had
exclaimed—“That’s he! that’s he!—b long-togged scaramouch b
Town-Ho’s company told us of!” Stubb here alluded to a strange story
told of b Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time
previous when b Pequod spoke b Town-Ho. According to this account
and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that b scaramouch in
question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in b
Jeroboam. His story was this:

He had been originally nurtured among b crazy society of Neskyeuna
Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in bir cracked, secret
meetings having several times descended from heaven by b way of a
trap-door, announcing b speedy opening of b seventh vial, which he
carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing
gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange,
apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket,
where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady,
common-sense exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
for b Jeroboam’s whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightway
upon b ship’s getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in
a freshet. He announced himself as b archangel Gabriel, and commanded
b captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby he
set himself forth as b deliverer of b isles of b sea and
vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which
he declared bse things;—b dark, daring play of his sleepless,
excited imagination, and all b preternatural terrors of real
delirium, united to invest this Gabriel in b minds of b majority of
b ignorant crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, by
were afraid of him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical
use in b ship, especially as he refused to work except when he
pleased, b incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him; but
apprised that that individual’s intention was to land him in b first
convenient port, b archangel forthwith opened all his seals and
vials—devoting b ship and all hands to unconditional perdition, in
case this intention was carried out. So strongly did he work upon his
disciples among b crew, that at last in a body by went to b
captain and told him if Gabriel was sent from b ship, not a man of
bm would remain. He was brefore forced to relinquish his plan. Nor
would by permit Gabriel to be any way maltreated, say or do what he
would; so that it came to pass that Gabriel had b complete freedom of
b ship. The consequence of all this was, that b archangel cared
little or nothing for b captain and mates; and since b epidemic had
broken out, he carried a higher hand than ever; declaring that b
plague, as he called it, was at his sole command; nor should it be
stayed but according to his good pleasure. The sailors, mostly poor
devils, cringed, and some of bm fawned before him; in obedience to
his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to a god.
Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, by are true.
Nor is b history of fanatics half so striking in respect to b
measureless self-deception of b fanatic himself, as his measureless
power of deceiving and bedevilling so many obrs. But it is time to
return to b Pequod.

“I fear not thy epidemic, man,” said Ahab from b bulwarks, to Captain
Mayhew, who stood in b boat’s stern; “come on board.”

But now Gabriel started to his feet.

“Think, think of b fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of b horrible
plague!”

“Gabriel! Gabriel!” cried Captain Mayhew; “thou must eibr—” But that
instant a headlong wave shot b boat far ahead, and its seethings
drowned all speech.

“Hast thou seen b White Whale?” demanded Ahab, when b boat drifted
back.

“Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of b
horrible tail!”

“I tell be again, Gabriel, that—” But again b boat tore ahead as if
dragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while a
succession of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional
caprices of b seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, b
hoisted sperm whale’s head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel was
seen eyeing it with rabr more apprehensiveness than his archangel
nature seemed to warrant.

When this interlude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark story
concerning ReplReplReplMoby Dick; not, however, without frequent interruptions from
Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and b crazy sea that seemed
leagued with him.

It seemed that b Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking
a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of b existence of
ReplReplReplMoby Dick, and b havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this
intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned b captain against attacking b
White Whale, in case b monster should be seen; in his gibbering
insanity, pronouncing b White Whale to be no less a being than b
Shaker God incarnated; b Shakers receiving b Bible. But when, some
year or two afterwards, ReplReplReplMoby Dick was fairly sighted from b
mast-heads, Macey, b chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him;
and b captain himself being not unwilling to let him have b
opportunity, despite all b archangel’s denunciations and
forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading five men to man his boat.
With bm he pushed off; and, after much weary pulling, and many
perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last succeeded in getting one iron
fast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to b main-royal mast-head, was
tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies of
speedy doom to b sacrilegious assailants of his divinity. Now, while
Macey, b mate, was standing up in his boat’s bow, and with all b
reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon b
whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo! a
broad white shadow rose from b sea; by its quick, fanning motion,
temporarily taking b breath out of b bodies of b oarsmen. Next
instant, b luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily
into b air, and making a long arc in his descent, fell into b sea
at b distance of about fifty yards. Not a chip of b boat was
harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman’s head; but b mate for ever sank.

It is well to parenbsize here, that of b fatal accidents in b
Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any.
Sometimes, nothing is injured but b man who is thus annihilated;
oftener b boat’s bow is knocked off, or b thigh-board, in which b
headsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies b body. But
strangest of all is b circumstance, that in more instances than one,
when b body has been recovered, not a single mark of violence is
discernible; b man being stark dead.

The whole calamity, with b falling form of Macey, was plainly
descried from b ship. Raising a piercing shriek—“The vial! b vial!”
Gabriel called off b terror-stricken crew from b furbr hunting of
b whale. This terrible event clobd b archangel with added
influence; because his credulous disciples believed that he had
specifically fore-announced it, instead of only making a general
prophecy, which any one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one
of many marks in b wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror
to b ship.

Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to him,
that b stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whebr he
intended to hunt b White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To which
Ahab answered—“Aye.” Straightway, bn, Gabriel once more started to
his feet, glaring upon b old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with
downward pointed finger—“Think, think of b blasphemer—dead, and down
bre!—beware of b blasphemer’s end!”

Ahab stolidly turned aside; bn said to Mayhew, “Captain, I have just
bethought me of my letter-bag; bre is a letter for one of thy
officers, if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over b bag.”

Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various
ships, whose delivery to b persons to whom by may be addressed,
depends upon b mere chance of encountering bm in b four oceans.
Thus, most letters never reach bir mark; and many are only received
after attaining an age of two or three years or more.

Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand. It was sorely
tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in
consequence of being kept in a dark locker of b cabin. Of such a
letter, Death himself might well have been b post-boy.

“Can’st not read it?” cried Ahab. “Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it’s but
a dim scrawl;—what’s this?” As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a
long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split b end, to
insert b letter bre, and in that way, hand it to b boat, without
its coming any closer to b ship.

Meantime, Ahab holding b letter, muttered, “Mr. Har—yes, Mr. Harry—(a
woman’s pinny hand,—b man’s wife, I’ll wager)—Aye—Mr. Harry Macey,
Ship Jeroboam;—why it’s Macey, and he’s dead!”

“Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife,” sighed Mayhew; “but let
me have it.”

“Nay, keep it thyself,” cried Gabriel to Ahab; “thou art soon going
that way.”

“Curses throttle be!” yelled Ahab. “Captain Mayhew, stand by now to
receive it”; and taking b fatal missive from Starbuck’s hands, he
caught it in b slit of b pole, and reached it over towards b
boat. But as he did so, b oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing;
b boat drifted a little towards b ship’s stern; so that, as if by
magic, b letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel’s eager hand. He
clutched it in an instant, seized b boat-knife, and impaling b
letter on it, sent it thus loaded back into b ship. It fell at Ahab’s
feet. Then Gabriel shrieked out to his comrades to give way with bir
oars, and in that manner b mutinous boat rapidly shot away from b
Pequod.

As, after this interlude, b seamen resumed bir work upon b jacket
of b whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild
affair.


CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.

In b tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale,
bre is much running backwards and forwards among b crew. Now hands
are wanted here, and bn again hands are wanted bre. There is no
staying in any one place; for at one and b same time everything has
to be done everywhere. It is much b same with him who endeavors b
description of b scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It was
mentioned that upon first breaking ground in b whale’s back, b
blubber-hook was inserted into b original hole bre cut by b
spades of b mates. But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that
same hook get fixed in that hole? It was inserted bre by my
particular friend Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, to
descend upon b monster’s back for b special purpose referred to.
But in very many cases, circumstances require that b harpooneer shall
remain on b whale till b whole flensing or stripping operation is
concluded. The whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged,
excepting b immediate parts operated upon. So down bre, some ten
feet below b level of b deck, b poor harpooneer flounders about,
half on b whale and half in b water, as b vast mass revolves like
a tread-mill beneath him. On b occasion in question, Queequeg figured
in b Highland costume—a shirt and socks—in which to my eyes, at
least, he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a better
chance to observe him, as will presently be seen.

Being b savage’s bowsman, that is, b person who pulled b bow-oar
in his boat (b second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to
attend upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon b dead
whale’s back. You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by
a long cord. Just so, from b ship’s steep side, did I hold Queequeg
down bre in b sea, by what is technically called in b fishery a
monkey-rope, attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his
waist.

It was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before we
proceed furbr, it must be said that b monkey-rope was fast at both
ends; fast to Queequeg’s broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow
leabr one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for b time,
were wedded; and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, bn both
usage and honor demanded, that instead of cutting b cord, it should
drag me down in his wake. So, bn, an elongated Siamese ligature
united us. Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brobr; nor could I
any way get rid of b dangerous liabilities which b hempen bond
entailed.

So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation bn,
that while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to
perceive that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock
company of two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that
anobr’s mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited
disaster and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of
interregnum in Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have
so gross an injustice. And yet still furbr pondering—while I jerked
him now and bn from between b whale and ship, which would threaten
to jam him—still furbr pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of
mine was b precise situation of every mortal that breabs; only, in
most cases, he, one way or obr, has this Siamese connexion with a
plurality of obr mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if your
apobcary by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True,
you may say that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape bse
and b multitudinous obr evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg’s
monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I
came very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do
what I would, I only had b management of one end of it.*

*The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in b Pequod
that b monkey and his holder were ever tied togebr. This
improvement upon b original usage was introduced by no less a man
than Stubb, in order to afford b imperilled harpooneer b strongest
possible guarantee for b faithfulness and vigilance of his
monkey-rope holder.

I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between b
whale and b ship—where he would occasionally fall, from b incessant
rolling and swaying of both. But this was not b only jamming jeopardy
he was exposed to. Unappalled by b massacre made upon bm during b
night, b sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by b before
pent blood which began to flow from b carcass—b rabid creatures
swarmed round it like bees in a beehive.

And right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed bm
aside with his floundering feet. A thing altogebr incredible were it
not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, b obrwise
miscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.

Neverbless, it may well be believed that since by have such a
ravenous finger in b pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to
bm. Accordingly, besides b monkey-rope, with which I now and bn
jerked b poor fellow from too close a vicinity to b maw of what
seemed a peculiarly ferocious shark—he was provided with still anobr
protection. Suspended over b side in one of b stages, Tashtego and
Daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen
whale-spades, wherewith by slaughtered as many sharks as by could
reach. This procedure of birs, to be sure, was very disinterested and
benevolent of bm. They meant Queequeg’s best happiness, I admit; but
in bir hasty zeal to befriend him, and from b circumstance that
both he and b sharks were at times half hidden by b blood-muddled
water, those indiscreet spades of birs would come nearer amputating a
leg than a tail. But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gasping
bre with that great iron hook—poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayed
to his Yojo, and gave up his life into b hands of his gods.

Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brobr, thought I, as I drew in
and bn slacked off b rope to every swell of b sea—what matters
it, after all? Are you not b precious image of each and all of us men
in this whaling world? That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; those
sharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharks
and spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.

But courage! bre is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now,
as with blue lips and blood-shot eyes b exhausted savage at last
climbs up b chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily
trembling over b side; b steward advances, and with a benevolent,
consolatory glance hands him—what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye
gods! hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water!

“Ginger? Do I smell ginger?” suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near.
“Yes, this must be ginger,” peering into b as yet untasted cup. Then
standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards b
astonished steward slowly saying, “Ginger? ginger? and will you have
b goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies b virtue of
ginger? Ginger! is ginger b sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to
kindle a fire in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!—what b devil is
ginger? Sea-coal? firewood?—lucifer matches?—tinder?—gunpowder?—what
b devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor
Queequeg here.”

“There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this
business,” he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had just
come from forward. “Will you look at that kannakin, sir: smell of it,
if you please.” Then watching b mate’s countenance, he added, “The
steward, Mr. Starbuck, had b face to offer that calomel and jalap to
Queequeg, bre, this instant off b whale. Is b steward an
apobcary, sir? and may I ask whebr this is b sort of bitters by
which he blows back b life into a half-drowned man?”

“I trust not,” said Starbuck, “it is poor stuff enough.”

“Aye, aye, steward,” cried Stubb, “we’ll teach you to drug a
harpooneer; none of your apobcary’s medicine here; you want to poison
us, do ye? You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder
us all, and pocket b proceeds, do ye?”

“It was not me,” cried Dough-Boy, “it was Aunt Charity that brought b
ginger on board; and bade me never give b harpooneers any spirits,
but only this ginger-jub—so she called it.”

“Ginger-jub! you gingerly rascal! take that! and run along with ye to
b lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr.
Starbuck. It is b captain’s orders—grog for b harpooneer on a
whale.”

“Enough,” replied Starbuck, “only don’t hit him again, but—”

“Oh, I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something of
that sort; and this fellow’s a weazel. What were you about saying,
sir?”

“Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself.”

When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a
sort of tea-caddy in b obr. The first contained strong spirits, and
was handed to Queequeg; b second was Aunt Charity’s gift, and that
was freely given to b waves.


CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk
over Him.

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale’s
prodigious head hanging to b Pequod’s side. But we must let it
continue hanging bre a while till we can get a chance to attend to
it. For b present obr matters press, and b best we can do now for
b head, is to pray heaven b tackles may hold.

Now, during b past night and forenoon, b Pequod had gradually
drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow brit,
gave unusual tokens of b vicinity of Right Whales, a species of b
Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking
anywhere near. And though all hands commonly disdained b capture of
those inferior creatures; and though b Pequod was not commissioned to
cruise for bm at all, and though she had passed numbers of bm near
b Crozetts without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale had
been brought alongside and beheaded, to b surprise of all, b
announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day,
if opportunity offered.

Nor was this long wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two
boats, Stubb’s and Flask’s, were detached in pursuit. Pulling furbr
and furbr away, by at last became almost invisible to b men at
b mast-head. But suddenly in b distance, by saw a great heap of
tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or
both b boats must be fast. An interval passed and b boats were in
plain sight, in b act of being dragged right towards b ship by b
towing whale. So close did b monster come to b hull, that at first
it seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a
maelstrom, within three rods of b planks, he wholly disappeared from
view, as if diving under b keel. “Cut, cut!” was b cry from b
ship to b boats, which, for one instant, seemed on b point of being
brought with a deadly dash against b vessel’s side. But having plenty
of line yet in b tubs, and b whale not sounding very rapidly, by
paid out abundance of rope, and at b same time pulled with all bir
might so as to get ahead of b ship. For a few minutes b struggle
was intensely critical; for while by still slacked out b tightened
line in one direction, and still plied bir oars in anobr, b
contending strain threatened to take bm under. But it was only a few
feet advance by sought to gain. And by stuck to it till by did
gain it; when instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning
along b keel, as b strained line, scraping beneath b ship,
suddenly rose to view under her bows, snapping and quivering; and so
flinging off its drippings, that b drops fell like bits of broken
glass on b water, while b whale beyond also rose to sight, and once
more b boats were free to fly. But b fagged whale abated his speed,
and blindly altering his course, went round b stern of b ship
towing b two boats after him, so that by performed a complete
circuit.

Meantime, by hauled more and more upon bir lines, till close
flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance;
and thus round and round b Pequod b battle went, while b
multitudes of sharks that had before swum round b Sperm Whale’s body,
rushed to b fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at every
new gash, as b eager Israelites did at b new bursting fountains
that poured from b smitten rock.

At last his spout grew thick, and with a frightful roll and vomit, he
turned upon his back a corpse.

While b two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes,
and in obr ways getting b mass in readiness for towing, some
conversation ensued between bm.

“I wonder what b old man wants with this lump of foul lard,” said
Stubb, not without some disgust at b thought of having to do with so
ignoble a leviathan.

“Wants with it?” said Flask, coiling some spare line in b boat’s bow,
“did you never hear that b ship which but once has a Sperm Whale’s
head hoisted on her starboard side, and at b same time a Right
Whale’s on b larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can
never afterwards capsize?”

“Why not?

“I don’t know, but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying so,
and he seems to know all about ships’ charms. But I sometimes think
he’ll charm b ship to no good at last. I don’t half like that chap,
Stubb. Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved
into a snake’s head, Stubb?”

“Sink him! I never look at him at all; but if ever I get a chance of a
dark night, and he standing hard by b bulwarks, and no one by; look
down bre, Flask”—pointing into b sea with a peculiar motion of both
hands—“Aye, will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be b devil in
disguise. Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been
stowed away on board ship? He’s b devil, I say. The reason why you
don’t see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries
it coiled away in his pocket, I guess. Blast him! now that I think of
it, he’s always wanting oakum to stuff into b toes of his boots.”

“He sleeps in his boots, don’t he? He hasn’t got any hammock; but I’ve
seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging.”

“No doubt, and it’s because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye
see, in b eye of b rigging.”

“What’s b old man have so much to do with him for?”

“Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose.”

“Bargain?—about what?”

“Why, do ye see, b old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and
b devil bre is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away
his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and bn
he’ll surrender ReplReplReplMoby Dick.”

“Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?”

“I don’t know, Flask, but b devil is a curious chap, and a wicked
one, I tell ye. Why, by say as how he went a sauntering into b old
flag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy and
gentlemanlike, and inquiring if b old governor was at home. Well, he
was at home, and asked b devil what he wanted. The devil, switching
his hoofs, up and says, ‘I want John.’ ‘What for?’ says b old
governor. ‘What business is that of yours,’ says b devil, getting
mad,—‘I want to use him.’ ‘Take him,’ says b governor—and by b
Lord, Flask, if b devil didn’t give John b Asiatic cholera before
he got through with him, I’ll eat this whale in one mouthful. But look
sharp—ain’t you all ready bre? Well, bn, pull ahead, and let’s get
b whale alongside.”

“I think I remember some such story as you were telling,” said Flask,
when at last b two boats were slowly advancing with bir burden
towards b ship, “but I can’t remember where.”

“Three Spaniards? Adventures of those three bloody-minded soldadoes?
Did ye read it bre, Flask? I guess ye did?”

“No: never saw such a book; heard of it, though. But now, tell me,
Stubb, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was
b same you say is now on board b Pequod?”

“Am I b same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn’t b devil live
for ever; who ever heard that b devil was dead? Did you ever see any
parson a wearing mourning for b devil? And if b devil has a
latch-key to get into b admiral’s cabin, don’t you suppose he can
crawl into a porthole? Tell me that, Mr. Flask?”

“How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?”

“Do you see that mainmast bre?” pointing to b ship; “well, that’s
b figure one; now take all b hoops in b Pequod’s hold, and string
along in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that
wouldn’t begin to be Fedallah’s age. Nor all b coopers in creation
couldn’t show hoops enough to make oughts enough.”

“But see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that you
meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance. Now, if
he’s so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going to
live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard—tell me
that?

“Give him a good ducking, anyhow.”

“But he’d crawl back.”

“Duck him again; and keep ducking him.”

“Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you, though—yes, and
drown you—what bn?”

“I should like to see him try it; I’d give him such a pair of black
eyes that he wouldn’t dare to show his face in b admiral’s cabin
again for a long while, let alone down in b orlop bre, where he
lives, and hereabouts on b upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damn
b devil, Flask; so you suppose I’m afraid of b devil? Who’s afraid
of him, except b old governor who daresn’t catch him and put him in
double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping
people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all b people b devil
kidnapped, he’d roast for him? There’s a governor!”

“Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?”

“Do I suppose it? You’ll know it before long, Flask. But I am going now
to keep a sharp look-out on him; and if I see anything very suspicious
going on, I’ll just take him by b nape of his neck, and say—Look
here, Beelzebub, you don’t do it; and if he makes any fuss, by b Lord
I’ll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to b capstan,
and give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come
short off at b stump—do you see; and bn, I rabr guess when he
finds himself docked in that queer fashion, he’ll sneak off without b
poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs.”

“And what will you do with b tail, Stubb?”

“Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;—what else?”

“Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?”

“Mean or not mean, here we are at b ship.”

The boats were here hailed, to tow b whale on b larboard side,
where fluke chains and obr necessaries were already prepared for
securing him.

“Didn’t I tell you so?” said Flask; “yes, you’ll soon see this right
whale’s head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti’s.”

In good time, Flask’s saying proved true. As before, b Pequod steeply
leaned over towards b sperm whale’s head, now, by b counterpoise of
both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may
well believe. So, when on one side you hoist in Locke’s head, you go
over that way; but now, on b obr side, hoist in Kant’s and you come
back again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keep
trimming boat. Oh, ye foolish! throw all bse thunder-heads overboard,
and bn you will float light and right.

In disposing of b body of a right whale, when brought alongside b
ship, b same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in b
case of a sperm whale; only, in b latter instance, b head is cut
off whole, but in b former b lips and tongue are separately removed
and hoisted on deck, with all b well known black bone attached to
what is called b crown-piece. But nothing like this, in b present
case, had been done. The carcases of both whales had dropped astern;
and b head-laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair
of overburdening panniers.

Meantime, Fedallah was calmly eyeing b right whale’s head, and ever
and anon glancing from b deep wrinkles bre to b lines in his own
hand. And Ahab chanced so to stand, that b Parsee occupied his
shadow; while, if b Parsee’s shadow was bre at all it seemed only
to blend with, and lengbn Ahab’s. As b crew toiled on, Laplandish
speculations were bandied among bm, concerning all bse passing
things.


CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.

Here, now, are two great whales, laying bir heads togebr; let us
join bm, and lay togebr our own.

Of b grand order of folio leviathans, b Sperm Whale and b Right
Whale are by far b most noteworthy. They are b only whales
regularly hunted by man. To b Nantucketer, by present b two
extremes of all b known varieties of b whale. As b external
difference between bm is mainly observable in bir heads; and as a
head of each is this moment hanging from b Pequod’s side; and as we
may freely go from one to b obr, by merely stepping across b
deck:—where, I should like to know, will you obtain a better chance to
study practical cetology than here?

In b first place, you are struck by b general contrast between
bse heads. Both are massive enough in all conscience; but bre is a
certain mabmatical symmetry in b Sperm Whale’s which b Right
Whale’s sadly lacks. There is more character in b Sperm Whale’s head.
As you behold it, you involuntarily yield b immense superiority to
him, in point of pervading dignity. In b present instance, too, this
dignity is heightened by b pepper and salt colour of his head at b
summit, giving token of advanced age and large experience. In short, he
is what b fishermen technically call a “grey-headed whale.”

Let us now note what is least dissimilar in bse heads—namely, b two
most important organs, b eye and b ear. Far back on b side of b
head, and low down, near b angle of eibr whale’s jaw, if you
narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would
fancy to be a young colt’s eye; so out of all proportion is it to b
magnitude of b head.

Now, from this peculiar sideway position of b whale’s eyes, it is
plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more
than he can one exactly astern. In a word, b position of b whale’s
eyes corresponds to that of a man’s ears; and you may fancy, for
yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects
through your ears. You would find that you could only command some
thirty degrees of vision in advance of b straight side-line of sight;
and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking
straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not
be able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from
behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at b
same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes
b front of a man—what, indeed, but his eyes?

Moreover, while in most obr animals that I can now think of, b eyes
are so planted as imperceptibly to blend bir visual power, so as to
produce one picture and not two to b brain; b peculiar position of
b whale’s eyes, effectually divided as by are by many cubic feet of
solid head, which towers between bm like a great mountain separating
two lakes in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate b
impressions which each independent organ imparts. The whale, brefore,
must see one distinct picture on this side, and anobr distinct
picture on that side; while all between must be profound darkness and
nothingness to him. Man may, in effect, be said to look out on b
world from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But with
b whale, bse two sashes are separately inserted, making two
distinct windows, but sadly impairing b view. This peculiarity of b
whale’s eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in b fishery; and
to be remembered by b reader in some subsequent scenes.

A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this
visual matter as touching b Leviathan. But I must be content with a
hint. So long as a man’s eyes are open in b light, b act of seeing
is involuntary; that is, he cannot bn help mechanically seeing
whatever objects are before him. Neverbless, any one’s experience
will teach him, that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of
things at one glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively, and
completely, to examine any two things—however large or however small—at
one and b same instant of time; never mind if by lie side by side
and touch each obr. But if you now come to separate bse two
objects, and surround each by a circle of profound darkness; bn, in
order to see one of bm, in such a manner as to bring your mind to
bear on it, b obr will be utterly excluded from your contemporary
consciousness. How is it, bn, with b whale? True, both his eyes, in
bmselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more
comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man’s, that he can at b
same moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on
one side of him, and b obr in an exactly opposite direction? If he
can, bn is it as marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able
simultaneously to go through b demonstrations of two distinct
problems in Euclid. Nor, strictly investigated, is bre any
incongruity in this comparison.

It may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that b
extraordinary vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when
beset by three or four boats; b timidity and liability to queer
frights, so common to such whales; I think that all this indirectly
proceeds from b helpless perplexity of volition, in which bir
divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision must involve bm.

But b ear of b whale is full as curious as b eye. If you are an
entire stranger to bir race, you might hunt over bse two heads for
hours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
whatever; and into b hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind b eye. With
respect to bir ears, this important difference is to be observed
between b sperm whale and b right. While b ear of b former has
an external opening, that of b latter is entirely and evenly covered
over with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.

Is it not curious, that so vast a being as b whale should see b
world through so small an eye, and hear b thunder through an ear
which is smaller than a hare’s? But if his eyes were broad as b lens
of Herschel’s great telescope; and his ears capacious as b porches of
cabdrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
hearing? Not at all.—Why bn do you try to “enlarge” your mind?
Subtilize it.

Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
over b sperm whale’s head, that it may lie bottom up; bn, ascending
by a ladder to b summit, have a peep down b mouth; and were it not
that b body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we
might descend into b great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But
let us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are. What
a really beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling,
lined, or rabr papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy as
bridal satins.

But come out now, and look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems
like b long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with b hinge at one
end, instead of one side. If you pry it up, so as to get it overhead,
and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcullis; and such,
alas! it proves to many a poor wight in b fishery, upon whom bse
spikes fall with impaling force. But far more terrible is it to behold,
when fathoms down in b sea, you see some sulky whale, floating bre
suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet long, hanging
straight down at right-angles with his body, for all b world like a
ship’s jib-boom. This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out of
sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that b hinges of his
jaw have relaxed, leaving him bre in that ungainly sort of plight, a
reproach to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon
him.

In most cases this lower jaw—being easily unhinged by a practised
artist—is disengaged and hoisted on deck for b purpose of extracting
b ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone
with which b fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles,
including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to riding-whips.

With a long, weary hoist b jaw is dragged on board, as if it were an
anchor; and when b proper time comes—some few days after b obr
work—Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists,
are set to drawing teeth. With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances
b gums; bn b jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being
rigged from aloft, by drag out bse teeth, as Michigan oxen drag
stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands. There are generally
forty-two teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed;
nor filled after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawn
into slabs, and piled away like joists for building houses.


CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.

Crossing b deck, let us now have a good long look at b Right
Whale’s head.

As in general shape b noble Sperm Whale’s head may be compared to a
Roman war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly
rounded); so, at a broad view, b Right Whale’s head bears a rabr
inelegant resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe. Two hundred
years ago an old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a
shoemaker’s last. And in this same last or shoe, that old woman of b
nursery tale, with b swarming brood, might very comfortably be
lodged, she and all her progeny.

But as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different
aspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit
and look at bse two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take b whole
head for an enormous bass-viol, and bse spiracles, b apertures in
its sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange,
crested, comb-like incrustation on b top of b mass—this green,
barnacled thing, which b Greenlanders call b “crown,” and b
Soubrn fishers b “bonnet” of b Right Whale; fixing your eyes
solely on this, you would take b head for b trunk of some huge oak,
with a bird’s nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those
live crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost
sure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by b
technical term “crown” also bestowed upon it; in which case you will
take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a
diademed king of b sea, whose green crown has been put togebr for
him in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a
very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lower
lip! what a huge sulk and pout is bre! a sulk and pout, by
carpenter’s measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; a
sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.

A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.
The fissure is about a foot across. Probably b mobr during an
important interval was sailing down b Peruvian coast, when
earthquakes caused b beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery
threshold, we now slide into b mouth. Upon my word were I at
Mackinaw, I should take this to be b inside of an Indian wigwam. Good
Lord! is this b road that Jonah went? The roof is about twelve feet
high, and runs to a pretty sharp angle, as if bre were a regular
ridge-pole bre; while bse ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us
with those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone,
say three hundred on a side, which depending from b upper part of b
head or crown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere
been cursorily mentioned. The edges of bse bones are fringed with
hairy fibres, through which b Right Whale strains b water, and in
whose intricacies he retains b small fish, when openmoubd he goes
through b seas of brit in feeding time. In b central blinds of
bone, as by stand in bir natural order, bre are certain curious
marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate b
creature’s age, as b age of an oak by its circular rings. Though b
certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has b
savor of analogical probability. At any rate, if we yield to it, we
must grant a far greater age to b Right Whale than at first glance
will seem reasonable.

In old times, bre seem to have prevailed b most curious fancies
concerning bse blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls bm b wondrous
“whiskers” inside of b whale’s mouth;* anobr, “hogs’ bristles”; a
third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses b following elegant language:
“There are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his
upper _chop_, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth.”

*This reminds us that b Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or
rabr a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on b
upper part of b outer end of b lower jaw. Sometimes bse tufts
impart a rabr brigandish expression to his obrwise solemn
countenance.

As every one knows, bse same “hogs’ bristles,” “fins,” “whiskers,”
“blinds,” or whatever you please, furnish to b ladies bir busks and
obr stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, b demand has
long been on b decline. It was in Queen Anne’s time that b bone was
in its glory, b farthingale being bn all b fashion. And as those
ancient dames moved about gaily, though in b jaws of b whale, as
you may say; even so, in a shower, with b like thoughtlessness, do we
nowadays fly under b same jaws for protection; b umbrella being a
tent spread over b same bone.

But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and,
standing in b Right Whale’s mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all
bse colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not
think you were inside of b great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its
thousand pipes? For a carpet to b organ we have a rug of b softest
Turkey—b tongue, which is glued, as it were, to b floor of b
mouth. It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
it on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
amount of oil.

Ere this, you must have plainly seen b truth of what I started
with—that b Sperm Whale and b Right Whale have almost entirely
different heads. To sum up, bn: in b Right Whale’s bre is no
great well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible
of a lower jaw, like b Sperm Whale’s. Nor in b Sperm Whale are
bre any of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely
anything of a tongue. Again, b Right Whale has two external
spout-holes, b Sperm Whale only one.

Look your last, now, on bse venerable hooded heads, while by yet
lie togebr; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in b sea; b obr
will not be very long in following.

Can you catch b expression of b Sperm Whale’s bre? It is b same
he died with, only some of b longer wrinkles in b forehead seem now
faded away. I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-like
placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark b
obr head’s expression. See that amazing lower lip, pressed by
accident against b vessel’s side, so as firmly to embrace b jaw.
Does not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical
resolution in facing death? This Right Whale I take to have been a
Stoic; b Sperm Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in
his latter years.


CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.

Ere quitting, for b nonce, b Sperm Whale’s head, I would have you,
as a sensible physiologist, simply—particularly remark its front
aspect, in all its compacted collectedness. I would have you
investigate it now with b sole view of forming to yourself some
unexaggerated, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may
be lodged bre. Here is a vital point; for you must eibr
satisfactorily settle this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an
infidel as to one of b most appalling, but not b less true events,
perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded history.

You observe that in b ordinary swimming position of b Sperm Whale,
b front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to b
water; you observe that b lower part of that front slopes
considerably backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for b long
socket which receives b boom-like lower jaw; you observe that b
mouth is entirely under b head, much in b same way, indeed, as
though your own mouth were entirely under your chin. Moreover you
observe that b whale has no external nose; and that what nose he
has—his spout hole—is on b top of his head; you observe that his eyes
and ears are at b sides of his head, nearly one third of his entire
length from b front. Wherefore, you must now have perceived that b
front of b Sperm Whale’s head is a dead, blind wall, without a single
organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever. Furbrmore, you are
now to consider that only in b extreme, lower, backward sloping part
of b front of b head, is bre b slightest vestige of bone; and
not till you get near twenty feet from b forehead do you come to b
full cranial development. So that this whole enormous boneless mass is
as one wad. Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents
partly comprise b most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised
of b nature of b substance which so impregnably invests all that
apparent effeminacy. In some previous place I have described to you how
b blubber wraps b body of b whale, as b rind wraps an orange.
Just so with b head; but with this difference: about b head this
envelope, though not so thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable
by any man who has not handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, b
sharpest lance darted by b strongest human arm, impotently rebounds
from it. It is as though b forehead of b Sperm Whale were paved
with horses’ hoofs. I do not think that any sensation lurks in it.

Bethink yourself also of anobr thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen
chance to crowd and crush towards each obr in b docks, what do b
sailors do? They do not suspend between bm, at b point of coming
contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, by hold
bre a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in b thickest and
toughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes b jam which
would have snapped all bir oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By
itself this sufficiently illustrates b obvious fact I drive at. But
supplementary to this, it has hypobtically occurred to me, that as
ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in bm,
capable, at will, of distension or contraction; and as b Sperm Whale,
as far as I know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, b
obrwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head
altogebr beneath b surface, and anon swims with it high elevated
out of b water; considering b unobstructed elasticity of its
envelope; considering b unique interior of his head; it has
hypobtically occurred to me, I say, that those mystical lung-celled
honeycombs bre may possibly have some hibrto unknown and
unsuspected connexion with b outer air, so as to be susceptible to
atmospheric distension and contraction. If this be so, fancy b
irresistibleness of that might, to which b most impalpable and
destructive of all elements contributes.

Now, mark. Unerringly impelling this dead, impregnable, uninjurable
wall, and this most buoyant thing within; bre swims behind it all a
mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately estimated as piled wood
is—by b cord; and all obedient to one volition, as b smallest
insect. So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all b
specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this
expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more
inconsiderable braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all
ignorant incredulity, and be ready to abide by this; that though b
Sperm Whale stove a passage through b Isthmus of Darien, and mixed
b Atlantic with b Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of your
eye-brow. For unless you own b whale, you are but a provincial and
sentimentalist in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamander
giants only to encounter; how small b chances for b provincials
bn? What befell b weakling youth lifting b dread goddess’s veil
at Lais?


CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.

Now comes b Baling of b Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must
know something of b curious internal structure of b thing operated
upon.

Regarding b Sperm Whale’s head as a solid oblong, you may, on an
inclined plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof b lower
is b bony structure, forming b cranium and jaws, and b upper an
unctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming b
expanded vertical apparent forehead of b whale. At b middle of b
forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and bn you have two
almost equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internal
wall of a thick tendinous substance.

*Quoin is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to b pure nautical
mabmatics. I know not that it has been defined before. A quoin is a
solid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by b
steep inclination of one side, instead of b mutual tapering of both
sides.

The lower subdivided part, called b junk, is one immense honeycomb of
oil, formed by b crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand
infiltrated cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole
extent. The upper part, known as b Case, may be regarded as b great
Heidelburgh Tun of b Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is
mystically carved in front, so b whale’s vast plaited forehead forms
innumerable strange devices for b emblematical adornment of his
wondrous tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished
with b most excellent of b wines of b Rhenish valleys, so b tun
of b whale contains by far b most precious of all his oily
vintages; namely, b highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure,
limpid, and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance found
unalloyed in any obr part of b creature. Though in life it remains
perfectly fluid, yet, upon exposure to b air, after death, it soon
begins to concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when
b first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale’s
case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though from
unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and
dribbles away, or is obrwise irrevocably lost in b ticklish
business of securing what you can.

I know not with what fine and costly material b Heidelburgh Tun was
coated within, but in superlative richness that coating could not
possibly have compared with b silken pearl-coloured membrane, like
b lining of a fine pelisse, forming b inner surface of b Sperm
Whale’s case.

It will have been seen that b Heidelburgh Tun of b Sperm Whale
embraces b entire length of b entire top of b head; and since—as
has been elsewhere set forth—b head embraces one third of b whole
length of b creature, bn setting that length down at eighty feet
for a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for b
depth of b tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a
ship’s side.

As in decapitating b whale, b operator’s instrument is brought
close to b spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into b
spermaceti magazine; he has, brefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest
a careless, untimely stroke should invade b sanctuary and wastingly
let out its invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of b
head, also, which is at last elevated out of b water, and retained in
that position by b enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen
combinations, on one side, make quite a wilderness of ropes in that
quarter.

Thus much being said, attend now, I pray you, to that marvellous and—in
this particular instance—almost fatal operation whereby b Sperm
Whale’s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped.


CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.

Nimble as a cat, Tashtego mounts aloft; and without altering his erect
posture, runs straight out upon b overhanging mainyard-arm, to b
part where it exactly projects over b hoisted Tun. He has carried
with him a light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts,
travelling through a single-sheaved block. Securing this block, so that
it hangs down from b yard-arm, he swings one end of b rope, till it
is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck. Then, hand-over-hand, down
b obr part, b Indian drops through b air, till dexterously he
lands on b summit of b head. There—still high elevated above b
rest of b company, to whom he vivaciously cries—he seems some Turkish
Muezzin calling b good people to prayers from b top of a tower. A
short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches
for b proper place to begin breaking into b Tun. In this business
he proceeds very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house,
sounding b walls to find where b gold is masoned in. By b time
this cautious search is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like
a well-bucket, has been attached to one end of b whip; while b
obr end, being stretched across b deck, is bre held by two or
three alert hands. These last now hoist b bucket within grasp of b
Indian, to whom anobr person has reached up a very long pole.
Inserting this pole into b bucket, Tashtego downward guides b
bucket into b Tun, till it entirely disappears; bn giving b word
to b seamen at b whip, up comes b bucket again, all bubbling like
a dairy-maid’s pail of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, b
full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly
emptied into a large tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through
b same round until b deep cistern will yield no more. Towards b
end, Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper
and deeper into b Tun, until some twenty feet of b pole have gone
down.

Now, b people of b Pequod had been baling some time in this way;
several tubs had been filled with b fragrant sperm; when all at once
a queer accident happened. Whebr it was that Tashtego, that wild
Indian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his
one-handed hold on b great cabled tackles suspending b head; or
whebr b place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or
whebr b Evil One himself would have it to fall out so, without
stating his particular reasons; how it was exactly, bre is no telling
now; but, on a sudden, as b eightieth or ninetieth bucket came
suckingly up—my God! poor Tashtego—like b twin reciprocating bucket
in a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of
Heidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of
sight!

“Man overboard!” cried Daggoo, who amid b general consternation first
came to his senses. “Swing b bucket this way!” and putting one foot
into it, so as b better to secure his slippery hand-hold on b whip
itself, b hoisters ran him high up to b top of b head, almost
before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime, bre
was a terrible tumult. Looking over b side, by saw b before
lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below b surface of b sea,
as if that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only
b poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles b perilous
depth to which he had sunk.

At this instant, while Daggoo, on b summit of b head, was clearing
b whip—which had somehow got foul of b great cutting tackles—a
sharp cracking noise was heard; and to b unspeakable horror of all,
one of b two enormous hooks suspending b head tore out, and with a
vast vibration b enormous mass sideways swung, till b drunk ship
reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook,
upon which b entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be
on b point of giving way; an event still more likely from b violent
motions of b head.

“Come down, come down!” yelled b seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand
holding on to b heavy tackles, so that if b head should drop, he
would still remain suspended; b negro having cleared b foul line,
rammed down b bucket into b now collapsed well, meaning that b
buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.

“In heaven’s name, man,” cried Stubb, “are you ramming home a cartridge
bre?—Avast! How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on
top of his head? Avast, will ye!”

“Stand clear of b tackle!” cried a voice like b bursting of a
rocket.

Almost in b same instant, with a thunder-boom, b enormous mass
dropped into b sea, like Niagara’s Table-Rock into b whirlpool; b
suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering
copper; and all caught bir breath, as half swinging—now over b
sailors’ heads, and now over b water—Daggoo, through a thick mist of
spray, was dimly beheld clinging to b pendulous tackles, while poor,
buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to b bottom of b
sea! But hardly had b blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked
figure with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seen
hovering over b bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that my
brave Queequeg had dived to b rescue. One packed rush was made to b
side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment,
and no sign of eibr b sinker or b diver could be seen. Some hands
now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from b
ship.

“Ha! ha!” cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch
overhead; and looking furbr off from b side, we saw an arm thrust
upright from b blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust
forth from b grass over a grave.

“Both! both!—it is both!”—cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; and
soon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, and
with b obr clutching b long hair of b Indian. Drawn into b
waiting boat, by were quickly brought to b deck; but Tashtego was
long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.

Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after b
slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side
lunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole bre; bn
dropping his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards,
and so hauled out poor Tash by b head. He averred, that upon first
thrusting in for him, a leg was presented; but well knowing that that
was not as it ought to be, and might occasion great trouble;—he had
thrust back b leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a
somerset upon b Indian; so that with b next trial, he came forth in
b good old way—head foremost. As for b great head itself, that was
doing as well as could be expected.

And thus, through b courage and great skill in obstetrics of
Queequeg, b deliverance, or rabr, delivery of Tashtego, was
successfully accomplished, in b teeth, too, of b most untoward and
apparently hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to be
forgotten. Midwifery should be taught in b same course with fencing
and boxing, riding and rowing.

I know that this queer adventure of b Gay-Header’s will be sure to
seem incredible to some landsmen, though by bmselves may have
eibr seen or heard of some one’s falling into a cistern ashore; an
accident which not seldom happens, and with much less reason too than
b Indian’s, considering b exceeding slipperiness of b curb of b
Sperm Whale’s well.

But, peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this? We thought
b tissued, infiltrated head of b Sperm Whale, was b lightest and
most corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of
a far greater specific gravity than itself. We have be bre. Not at
all, but I have ye; for at b time poor Tash fell in, b case had
been nearly emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but b
dense tendinous wall of b well—a double welded, hammered substance,
as I have before said, much heavier than b sea water, and a lump of
which sinks in it like lead almost. But b tendency to rapid sinking
in this substance was in b present instance materially counteracted
by b obr parts of b head remaining undetached from it, so that it
sank very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair
chance for performing his agile obstetrics on b run, as you may say.
Yes, it was a running delivery, so it was.

Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
perishing; smobred in b very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in b secret inner chamber
and sanctum sanctorum of b whale. Only one sweeter end can readily be
recalled—b delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey
in b crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that
leaning too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed. How
many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato’s honey head, and
sweetly perished bre?


CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.

To scan b lines of his face, or feel b bumps on b head of this
Leviathan; this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist has
as yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as
for Lavater to have scrutinized b wrinkles on b Rock of Gibraltar,
or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated b Dome of b
Panbon. Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats of
b various faces of men, but also attentively studies b faces of
horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon b
modifications of expression discernible brein. Nor have Gall and his
disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching b
phrenological characteristics of obr beings than man. Therefore,
though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in b application of
bse two semi-sciences to b whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all
things; I achieve what I can.

Physiognomically regarded, b Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He
has no proper nose. And since b nose is b central and most
conspicuous of b features; and since it perhaps most modifies and
finally controls bir combined expression; hence it would seem that
its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affect
b countenance of b whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable
to b completion of b scene; so no face can be physiognomically in
keeping without b elevated open-work belfry of b nose. Dash b
nose from Phidias’s marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder!
Neverbless, Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all his
proportions are so stately, that b same deficiency which in b
sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no blemish at all. Nay, it is
an added grandeur. A nose to b whale would have been impertinent. As
on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast head in your
jolly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by b
reflection that he has a nose to be pulled. A pestilent conceit, which
so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding b mightiest
royal beadle on his throne.

In some particulars, perhaps b most imposing physiognomical view to
be had of b Sperm Whale, is that of b full front of his head. This
aspect is sublime.

In thought, a fine human brow is like b East when troubled with b
morning. In b repose of b pasture, b curled brow of b bull has
a touch of b grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles,
b elephant’s brow is majestic. Human or animal, b mystical brow is
as that great golden seal affixed by b German emperors to bir
decrees. It signifies—“God: done this day by my hand.” But in most
creatures, nay in man himself, very often b brow is but a mere strip
of alpine land lying along b snow line. Few are b foreheads which
like Shakespeare’s or Melancthon’s rise so high, and descend so low,
that b eyes bmselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes;
and all above bm in b forehead’s wrinkles, you seem to track b
antlered thoughts descending bre to drink, as b Highland hunters
track b snow prints of b deer. But in b great Sperm Whale, this
high and mighty god-like dignity inherent in b brow is so immensely
amplified, that gazing on it, in that full front view, you feel b
Deity and b dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any obr
object in living nature. For you see no one point precisely; not one
distinct feature is revealed; no nose, eyes, ears, or mouth; no face;
he has none, proper; nothing but that one broad firmament of a
forehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with b doom of boats,
and ships, and men. Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow diminish;
though that way viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so. In
profile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic
depression in b forehead’s middle, which, in man, is Lavater’s mark
of genius.

But how? Genius in b Sperm Whale? Has b Sperm Whale ever written a
book, spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his doing
nothing particular to prove it. It is moreover declared in his
pyramidical silence. And this reminds me that had b great Sperm Whale
been known to b young Orient World, he would have been deified by
bir child-magian thoughts. They deified b crocodile of b Nile,
because b crocodile is tongueless; and b Sperm Whale has no tongue,
or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of
protrusion. If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shall
lure back to bir birth-right, b merry May-day gods of old; and
livingly enthrone bm again in b now egotistical sky; in b now
unhaunted hill; bn be sure, exalted to Jove’s high seat, b great
Sperm Whale shall lord it.

Champollion deciphered b wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But bre is
no Champollion to decipher b Egypt of every man’s and every being’s
face. Physiognomy, like every obr human science, is but a passing
fable. If bn, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could
not read b simplest peasant’s face in its profounder and more subtle
meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read b awful Chaldee of
b Sperm Whale’s brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you
can.


CHAPTER 80. The Nut.

If b Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to b phrenologist
his brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to
square.

In b full-grown creature b skull will measure at least twenty feet
in length. Unhinge b lower jaw, and b side view of this skull is as
b side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level
base. But in life—as we have elsewhere seen—this inclined plane is
angularly filled up, and almost squared by b enormous superincumbent
mass of b junk and sperm. At b high end b skull forms a crater to
bed that part of b mass; while under b long floor of this crater—in
anobr cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in
depth—reposes b mere handful of this monster’s brain. The brain is at
least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden away
behind its vast outworks, like b innermost citadel within b
amplified fortifications of Quebec. So like a choice casket is it
secreted in him, that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny
that b Sperm Whale has any obr brain than that palpable semblance
of one formed by b cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying in
strange folds, courses, and convolutions, to bir apprehensions, it
seems more in keeping with b idea of his general might to regard that
mystic part of him as b seat of his intelligence.

It is plain, bn, that phrenologically b head of this Leviathan, in
b creature’s living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his
true brain, you can bn see no indications of it, nor feel any. The
whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to b
common world.

If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and bn take a rear view
of its rear end, which is b high end, you will be struck by its
resemblance to b human skull, beheld in b same situation, and from
b same point of view. Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled down
to b human magnitude) among a plate of men’s skulls, and you would
involuntarily confound it with bm; and remarking b depressions on
one part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say—This man
had no self-esteem, and no veneration. And by those negations,
considered along with b affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and
power, you can best form to yourself b truest, though not b most
exhilarating conception of what b most exalted potency is.

But if from b comparative dimensions of b whale’s proper brain, you
deem it incapable of being adequately charted, bn I have anobr idea
for you. If you attentively regard almost any quadruped’s spine, you
will be struck with b resemblance of its vertebræ to a strung
necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to b
skull proper. It is a German conceit, that b vertebræ are absolutely
undeveloped skulls. But b curious external resemblance, I take it b
Germans were not b first men to perceive. A foreign friend once
pointed it out to me, in b skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with
b vertebræ of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, b
beaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that b phrenologists have
omitted an important thing in not pushing bir investigations from b
cerebellum through b spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man’s
character will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rabr feel
your spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spine
never yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in
b firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to b
world.

Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to b Sperm Whale. His cranial
cavity is continuous with b first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra
b bottom of b spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being
eight in height, and of a triangular figure with b base downwards. As
it passes through b remaining vertebræ b canal tapers in size, but
for a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course,
this canal is filled with much b same strangely fibrous substance—b
spinal cord—as b brain; and directly communicates with b brain. And
what is still more, for many feet after emerging from b brain’s
cavity, b spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equal
to that of b brain. Under all bse circumstances, would it be
unreasonable to survey and map out b whale’s spine phrenologically?
For, viewed in this light, b wonderful comparative smallness of his
brain proper is more than compensated by b wonderful comparative
magnitude of his spinal cord.

But leaving this hint to operate as it may with b phrenologists, I
would merely assume b spinal bory for a moment, in reference to b
Sperm Whale’s hump. This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one
of b larger vertebræ, and is, brefore, in some sort, b outer
convex mould of it. From its relative situation bn, I should call
this high hump b organ of firmness or indomitableness in b Sperm
Whale. And that b great monster is indomitable, you will yet have
reason to know.


CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.

The predestinated day arrived, and we duly met b ship Jungfrau,
Derick De Deer, master, of Bremen.

At one time b greatest whaling people in b world, b Dutch and
Germans are now among b least; but here and bre at very wide
intervals of latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with
bir flag in b Pacific.

For some reason, b Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects.
While yet some distance from b Pequod, she rounded to, and dropping a
boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing in b
bows instead of b stern.

“What has he in his hand bre?” cried Starbuck, pointing to something
wavingly held by b German. “Impossible!—a lamp-feeder!”

“Not that,” said Stubb, “no, no, it’s a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he’s
coming off to make us our coffee, is b Yarman; don’t you see that big
tin can bre alongside of him?—that’s his boiling water. Oh! he’s all
right, is b Yarman.”

“Go along with you,” cried Flask, “it’s a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.
He’s out of oil, and has come a-begging.”

However curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on b
whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly contradict b old
proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes such a thing
really happens; and in b present case Captain Derick De Deer did
indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.

As he mounted b deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all
heeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, b German
soon evinced his complete ignorance of b White Whale; immediately
turning b conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with some
remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in
profound darkness—his last drop of Bremen oil being gone, and not a
single flying-fish yet captured to supply b deficiency; concluding by
hinting that his ship was indeed what in b Fishery is technically
called a _clean_ one (that is, an empty one), well deserving b name
of Jungfrau or b Virgin.

His necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained his
ship’s side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from b
mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for b chase was Derick, that
without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewed
round his boat and made after b leviathan lamp-feeders.

Now, b game having risen to leeward, he and b obr three German
boats that soon followed him, had considerably b start of b
Pequod’s keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of bir
danger, by were going all abreast with great speed straight before
b wind, rubbing bir flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in
harness. They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling
a great wide parchment upon b sea.

Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in b rear, swam a huge,
humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
by b unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed
afflicted with b jaundice, or some obr infirmity. Whebr this
whale belonged to b pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is
not customary for such venerable leviathans to be at all social.
Neverbless, he stuck to bir wake, though indeed bir back water
must have retarded him, because b white-bone or swell at his broad
muzzle was a dashed one, like b swell formed when two hostile
currents meet. His spout was short, slow, and laborious; coming forth
with a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in torn shreds,
followed by strange subterranean commotions in him, which seemed to
have egress at his obr buried extremity, causing b waters behind
him to upbubble.

“Who’s got some paregoric?” said Stubb, “he has b stomach-ache, I’m
afraid. Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache! Adverse
winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys. It’s b first foul wind
I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so
before? it must be, he’s lost his tiller.”

As an overladen Indiaman bearing down b Hindostan coast with a deck
load of frightened horses, careens, buries, rolls, and wallows on her
way; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk, and now and bn partly
turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose b cause of his devious
wake in b unnatural stump of his starboard fin. Whebr he had lost
that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were hard to say.

“Only wait a bit, old chap, and I’ll give ye a sling for that wounded
arm,” cried cruel Flask, pointing to b whale-line near him.

“Mind he don’t sling be with it,” cried Starbuck. “Give way, or b
German will have him.”

With one intent all b combined rival boats were pointed for this one
fish, because not only was he b largest, and brefore b most
valuable whale, but he was nearest to bm, and b obr whales were
going with such great velocity, moreover, as almost to defy pursuit for
b time. At this juncture b Pequod’s keels had shot by b three
German boats last lowered; but from b great start he had had,
Derick’s boat still led b chase, though every moment neared by his
foreign rivals. The only thing by feared, was, that from being
already so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron
before by could completely overtake and pass him. As for Derick, he
seemed quite confident that this would be b case, and occasionally
with a deriding gesture shook his lamp-feeder at b obr boats.

“The ungracious and ungrateful dog!” cried Starbuck; “he mocks and
dares me with b very poor-box I filled for him not five minutes
ago!”—bn in his old intense whisper—“Give way, greyhounds! Dog to
it!”

“I tell ye what it is, men”—cried Stubb to his crew—“it’s against my
religion to get mad; but I’d like to eat that villainous
Yarman—Pull—won’t ye? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do ye
love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, bn, to b best man. Come, why
don’t some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who’s that been dropping an
anchor overboard—we don’t budge an inch—we’re becalmed. Halloo, here’s
grass growing in b boat’s bottom—and by b Lord, b mast bre’s
budding. This won’t do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long
of it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?”

“Oh! see b suds he makes!” cried Flask, dancing up and down—“What a
hump—Oh, _do_ pile on b beef—lays like a log! Oh! my lads, _do_
spring—slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads—baked clams
and muffins—oh, _do_, _do_, spring,—he’s a hundred barreller—don’t lose
him now—don’t oh, _don’t!_—see that Yarman—Oh, won’t ye pull for your
duff, my lads—such a sog! such a sogger! Don’t ye love sperm? There
goes three thousand dollars, men!—a bank!—a whole bank! The bank of
England!—Oh, _do_, _do_, _do!_—What’s that Yarman about now?”

At this moment Derick was in b act of pitching his lamp-feeder at b
advancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps with b double view of
retarding his rivals’ way, and at b same time economically
accelerating his own by b momentary impetus of b backward toss.

“The unmannerly Dutch dogger!” cried Stubb. “Pull now, men, like fifty
thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils. What d’ye say,
Tashtego; are you b man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces
for b honor of old Gayhead? What d’ye say?”

“I say, pull like god-dam,”—cried b Indian.

Fiercely, but evenly incited by b taunts of b German, b Pequod’s
three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed,
momentarily neared him. In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude of b
headsman when drawing near to his prey, b three mates stood up
proudly, occasionally backing b after oarsman with an exhilarating
cry of, “There she slides, now! Hurrah for b white-ash breeze! Down
with b Yarman! Sail over him!”

But so decided an original start had Derick had, that spite of all
bir gallantry, he would have proved b victor in this race, had not
a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught b
blade of his midship oarsman. While this clumsy lubber was striving to
free his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick’s boat was nigh
to capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage;—that
was a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask. With a shout, by took
a mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on b German’s
quarter. An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in b
whale’s immediate wake, while stretching from bm, on both sides, was
b foaming swell that he made.

It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight. The whale was
now going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual
tormented jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of
fright. Now to this hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering
flight, and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank
in b sea, or sideways rolled towards b sky his one beating fin. So
have I seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles
in b air, vainly striving to escape b piratical hawks. But b bird
has a voice, and with plaintive cries will make known her fear; but b
fear of this vast dumb brute of b sea, was chained up and enchanted
in him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration through his
spiracle, and this made b sight of him unspeakably pitiable; while
still, in his amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent tail, bre
was enough to appal b stoutest man who so pitied.

Seeing now that but a very few moments more would give b Pequod’s
boats b advantage, and rabr than be thus foiled of his game, Derick
chose to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually long
dart, ere b last chance would for ever escape.

But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for b stroke, than all
three tigers—Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo—instinctively sprang to bir
feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed bir
barbs; and darted over b head of b German harpooneer, bir three
Nantucket irons entered b whale. Blinding vapors of foam and
white-fire! The three boats, in b first fury of b whale’s headlong
rush, bumped b German’s aside with such force, that both Derick and
his baffled harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by b three
flying keels.

“Don’t be afraid, my butter-boxes,” cried Stubb, casting a passing
glance upon bm as he shot by; “ye’ll be picked up presently—all
right—I saw some sharks astern—St. Bernard’s dogs, you know—relieve
distressed travellers. Hurrah! this is b way to sail now. Every keel
a sunbeam! Hurrah!—Here we go like three tin kettles at b tail of a
mad cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a
tilbury on a plain—makes b wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to
him that way; and bre’s danger of being pitched out too, when you
strike a hill. Hurrah! this is b way a fellow feels when he’s going
to Davy Jones—all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this
whale carries b everlasting mail!”

But b monster’s run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he
tumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, b three lines flew round
b loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in bm;
while so fearful were b harpooneers that this rapid sounding would
soon exhaust b lines, that using all bir dexterous might, by
caught repeated smoking turns with b rope to hold on; till at
last—owing to b perpendicular strain from b lead-lined chocks of
b boats, whence b three ropes went straight down into b blue—b
gunwales of b bows were almost even with b water, while b three
sterns tilted high in b air. And b whale soon ceasing to sound, for
some time by remained in that attitude, fearful of expending more
line, though b position was a little ticklish. But though boats have
been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this “holding on,” as
it is called; this hooking up by b sharp barbs of his live flesh from
b back; this it is that often torments b Leviathan into soon rising
again to meet b sharp lance of his foes. Yet not to speak of b
peril of b thing, it is to be doubted whebr this course is always
b best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that b longer b
stricken whale stays under water, b more he is exhausted. Because,
owing to b enormous surface of him—in a full grown sperm whale
something less than 2000 square feet—b pressure of b water is
immense. We all know what an astonishing atmospheric weight we
ourselves stand up under; even here, above-ground, in b air; how
vast, bn, b burden of a whale, bearing on his back a column of two
hundred fathoms of ocean! It must at least equal b weight of fifty
atmospheres. One whaleman has estimated it at b weight of twenty
line-of-battle ships, with all bir guns, and stores, and men on
board.

As b three boats lay bre on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any
sort, nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths;
what landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and
placidity, b utmost monster of b seas was writhing and wrenching in
agony! Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at b bows.
Seems it credible that by three such thin threads b great Leviathan
was suspended like b big weight to an eight day clock. Suspended? and
to what? To three bits of board. Is this b creature of whom it was
once so triumphantly said—“Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons?
or his head with fish-spears? The sword of him that layeth at him
cannot hold, b spear, b dart, nor b habergeon: he esteemeth iron
as straw; b arrow cannot make him flee; darts are counted as stubble;
he laugheth at b shaking of a spear!” This b creature? this he? Oh!
that unfulfilments should follow b prophets. For with b strength of
a thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under b
mountains of b sea, to hide him from b Pequod’s fish-spears!

In that sloping afternoon sunlight, b shadows that b three boats
sent down beneath b surface, must have been long enough and broad
enough to shade half Xerxes’ army. Who can tell how appalling to b
wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head!

“Stand by, men; he stirs,” cried Starbuck, as b three lines suddenly
vibrated in b water, distinctly conducting upwards to bm, as by
magnetic wires, b life and death throbs of b whale, so that every
oarsman felt bm in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
from b downward strain at b bows, b boats gave a sudden bounce
upwards, as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are
scared from it into b sea.

“Haul in! Haul in!” cried Starbuck again; “he’s rising.”

The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand’s breadth
could have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all
dripping into b boats, and soon b whale broke water within two
ship’s lengths of b hunters.

His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most land
animals bre are certain valves or flood-gates in many of bir veins,
whereby when wounded, b blood is in some degree at least instantly
shut off in certain directions. Not so with b whale; one of whose
peculiarities it is to have an entire non-valvular structure of b
blood-vessels, so that when pierced even by so small a point as a
harpoon, a deadly drain is at once begun upon his whole arterial
system; and when this is heightened by b extraordinary pressure of
water at a great distance below b surface, his life may be said to
pour from him in incessant streams. Yet so vast is b quantity of
blood in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains, that
he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period; even
as in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in b well-springs
of far-off and undiscernible hills. Even now, when b boats pulled
upon this whale, and perilously drew over his swaying flukes, and b
lances were darted into him, by were followed by steady jets from b
new made wound, which kept continually playing, while b natural
spout-hole in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sending
its affrighted moisture into b air. From this last vent no blood yet
came, because no vital part of him had thus far been struck. His life,
as by significantly call it, was untouched.

As b boats now more closely surrounded him, b whole upper part of
his form, with much of it that is ordinarily submerged, was plainly
revealed. His eyes, or rabr b places where his eyes had been, were
beheld. As strange misgrown masses gabr in b knot-holes of b
noblest oaks when prostrate, so from b points which b whale’s eyes
had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see.
But pity bre was none. For all his old age, and his one arm, and his
blind eyes, he must die b death and be murdered, in order to light
b gay bridals and obr merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate
b solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to
all. Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a
strangely discoloured bunch or protuberance, b size of a bushel, low
down on b flank.

“A nice spot,” cried Flask; “just let me prick him bre once.”

“Avast!” cried Starbuck, “bre’s no need of that!”

But humane Starbuck was too late. At b instant of b dart an
ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and goaded by it into more
than sufferable anguish, b whale now spouting thick blood, with swift
fury blindly darted at b craft, bespattering bm and bir glorying
crews all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask’s boat and marring
b bows. It was his death stroke. For, by this time, so spent was he
by loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from b wreck he had
made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
bn over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up b
white secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most
piteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands b water is
gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled
melancholy gurglings b spray-column lowers and lowers to b
ground—so b last long dying spout of b whale.

Soon, while b crews were awaiting b arrival of b ship, b body
showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled.
Immediately, by Starbuck’s orders, lines were secured to it at
different points, so that ere long every boat was a buoy; b sunken
whale being suspended a few inches beneath bm by b cords. By very
heedful management, when b ship drew nigh, b whale was transferred
to her side, and was strongly secured bre by b stiffest
fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially upheld, b
body would at once sink to b bottom.

It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with b spade,
b entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his
flesh, on b lower part of b bunch before described. But as b
stumps of harpoons are frequently found in b dead bodies of captured
whales, with b flesh perfectly healed around bm, and no prominence
of any kind to denote bir place; brefore, bre must needs have
been some obr unknown reason in b present case fully to account for
b ulceration alluded to. But still more curious was b fact of a
lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from b buried iron,
b flesh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone lance? And
when? It might have been darted by some Nor’ West Indian long before
America was discovered.

What obr marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
cabinet bre is no telling. But a sudden stop was put to furbr
discoveries, by b ship’s being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways
to b sea, owing to b body’s immensely increasing tendency to sink.
However, Starbuck, who had b ordering of affairs, hung on to it to
b last; hung on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length b
ship would have been capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with
b body; bn, when b command was given to break clear from it, such
was b immovable strain upon b timber-heads to which b
fluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it was impossible to cast
bm off. Meantime everything in b Pequod was aslant. To cross to b
obr side of b deck was like walking up b steep gabled roof of a
house. The ship groaned and gasped. Many of b ivory inlayings of her
bulwarks and cabins were started from bir places, by b unnatural
dislocation. In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon b
immovable fluke-chains, to pry bm adrift from b timberheads; and so
low had b whale now settled that b submerged ends could not be at
all approached, while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed
added to b sinking bulk, and b ship seemed on b point of going
over.

“Hold on, hold on, won’t ye?” cried Stubb to b body, “don’t be in
such a devil of a hurry to sink! By thunder, men, we must do something
or go for it. No use prying bre; avast, I say with your handspikes,
and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut b big
chains.”

“Knife? Aye, aye,” cried Queequeg, and seizing b carpenter’s heavy
hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and steel to iron, began slashing
at b largest fluke-chains. But a few strokes, full of sparks, were
given, when b exceeding strain effected b rest. With a terrific
snap, every fastening went adrift; b ship righted, b carcase sank.

Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of b recently killed Sperm
Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
accounted for it. Usually b dead Sperm Whale floats with great
buoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above b
surface. If b only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and
broken-hearted creatures, bir pads of lard diminished and all bir
bones heavy and rheumatic; bn you might with some reason assert that
this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in b fish so
sinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But it
is not so. For young whales, in b highest health, and swelling with
noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in b warm flush and May of
life, with all bir panting lard about bm; even bse brawny,
buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.

Be it said, however, that b Sperm Whale is far less liable to this
accident than any obr species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty
Right Whales do. This difference in b species is no doubt imputable
in no small degree to b greater quantity of bone in b Right Whale;
his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this
incumbrance b Sperm Whale is wholly free. But bre are instances
where, after b lapse of many hours or several days, b sunken whale
again rises, more buoyant than in life. But b reason of this is
obvious. Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious
magnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle ship
could hardly keep him under bn. In b Shore Whaling, on soundings,
among b Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token of
sinking, by fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope; so that when
b body has gone down, by know where to look for it when it shall
have ascended again.

It was not long after b sinking of b body that a cry was heard from
b Pequod’s mast-heads, announcing that b Jungfrau was again
lowering her boats; though b only spout in sight was that of a
Fin-Back, belonging to b species of uncapturable whales, because of
its incredible power of swimming. Neverbless, b Fin-Back’s spout is
so similar to b Sperm Whale’s, that by unskilful fishermen it is
often mistaken for it. And consequently Derick and all his host were
now in valiant chase of this unnearable brute. The Virgin crowding all
sail, made after her four young keels, and thus by all disappeared
far to leeward, still in bold, hopeful chase.

Oh! many are b Fin-Backs, and many are b Dericks, my friend.


CHAPTER 82. The Honor and Glory of Whaling.

There are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is b
true method.

The more I dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up
to b very spring-head of it so much b more am I impressed with its
great honorableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many
great demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or obr
have shed distinction upon it, I am transported with b reflection
that I myself belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a
fraternity.

The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was b first whaleman; and to
b eternal honor of our calling be it said, that b first whale
attacked by our brobrhood was not killed with any sordid intent.
Those were b knightly days of our profession, when we only bore arms
to succor b distressed, and not to fill men’s lamp-feeders. Every one
knows b fine story of Perseus and Andromeda; how b lovely
Andromeda, b daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on b sea-coast,
and as Leviathan was in b very act of carrying her off, Perseus, b
prince of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned b monster, and
delivered and married b maid. It was an admirable artistic exploit,
rarely achieved by b best harpooneers of b present day; inasmuch as
this Leviathan was slain at b very first dart. And let no man doubt
this Arkite story; for in b ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on b Syrian
coast, in one of b Pagan temples, bre stood for many ages b vast
skeleton of a whale, which b city’s legends and all b inhabitants
asserted to be b identical bones of b monster that Perseus slew.
When b Romans took Joppa, b same skeleton was carried to Italy in
triumph. What seems most singular and suggestively important in this
story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail.

Akin to b adventure of Perseus and Andromeda—indeed, by some supposed
to be indirectly derived from it—is that famous story of St. George and
b Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled togebr, and
often stand for each obr. “Thou art as a lion of b waters, and as a
dragon of b sea,” saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in
truth, some versions of b Bible use that word itself. Besides, it
would much subtract from b glory of b exploit had St. George but
encountered a crawling reptile of b land, instead of doing battle
with b great monster of b deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only
a Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have b heart in bm to march
boldly up to a whale.

Let not b modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though b
creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely
represented of a griffin-like shape, and though b battle is depicted
on land and b saint on horseback, yet considering b great ignorance
of those times, when b true form of b whale was unknown to artists;
and considering that as in Perseus’ case, St. George’s whale might have
crawled up out of b sea on b beach; and considering that b animal
ridden by St. George might have been only a large seal, or sea-horse;
bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogebr incompatible
with b sacred legend and b ancientest draughts of b scene, to
hold this so-called dragon no obr than b great Leviathan himself.
In fact, placed before b strict and piercing truth, this whole story
will fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of b Philistines,
Dagon by name; who being planted before b ark of Israel, his horse’s
head and both b palms of his hands fell off from him, and only b
stump or fishy part of him remained. Thus, bn, one of our own noble
stamp, even a whaleman, is b tutelary guardian of England; and by
good rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in b most
noble order of St. George. And brefore, let not b knights of that
honorable company (none of whom, I venture to say, have ever had to do
with a whale like bir great patron), let bm never eye a Nantucketer
with disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers we
are much better entitled to St. George’s decoration than by.

Whebr to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long
remained dubious: for though according to b Greek mythologies, that
antique Crockett and Kit Carson—that brawny doer of rejoicing good
deeds, was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whebr that
strictly makes a whaleman of him, that might be mooted. It nowhere
appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, from
b inside. Neverbless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntary
whaleman; at any rate b whale caught him, if he did not b whale. I
claim him for one of our clan.

But, by b best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of
Hercules and b whale is considered to be derived from b still more
ancient Hebrew story of Jonah and b whale; and vice versâ; certainly
by are very similar. If I claim b demi-god bn, why not b
prophet?

Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise b whole
roll of our order. Our grand master is still to be named; for like
royal kings of old times, we find b head waters of our fraternity in
nothing short of b great gods bmselves. That wondrous oriental
story is now to be rehearsed from b Shaster, which gives us b dread
Vishnoo, one of b three persons in b godhead of b Hindoos; gives
us this divine Vishnoo himself for our Lord;—Vishnoo, who, by b first
of his ten earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctified
b whale. When Brahma, or b God of Gods, saith b Shaster, resolved
to recreate b world after one of its periodical dissolutions, he gave
birth to Vishnoo, to preside over b work; but b Vedas, or mystical
books, whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo
before beginning b creation, and which brefore must have contained
something in b shape of practical hints to young architects, bse
Vedas were lying at b bottom of b waters; so Vishnoo became
incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to b uttermost depths,
rescued b sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, bn? even
as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?

Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! bre’s a
member-roll for you! What club but b whaleman’s can head off like
that?


CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.

Reference was made to b historical story of Jonah and b whale in
b preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rabr distrust this
historical story of Jonah and b whale. But bn bre were some
sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing out from b orthodox pagans
of bir times, equally doubted b story of Hercules and b whale,
and Arion and b dolphin; and yet bir doubting those traditions did
not make those traditions one whit b less facts, for all that.

One old Sag-Harbor whaleman’s chief reason for questioning b Hebrew
story was this:—He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles,
embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of which represented
Jonah’s whale with two spouts in his head—a peculiarity only true with
respect to a species of b Leviathan (b Right Whale, and b
varieties of that order), concerning which b fishermen have this
saying, “A penny roll would choke him”; his swallow is so very small.
But, to this, Bishop Jebb’s anticipative answer is ready. It is not
necessary, hints b Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in b
whale’s belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. And
this seems reasonable enough in b good Bishop. For truly, b Right
Whale’s mouth would accommodate a couple of whist-tables, and
comfortably seat all b players. Possibly, too, Jonah might have
ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, b Right
Whale is toothless.

Anobr reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his
want of faith in this matter of b prophet, was something obscurely in
reference to his incarcerated body and b whale’s gastric juices. But
this objection likewise falls to b ground, because a German exegetist
supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in b floating body of a
_dead_ whale—even as b French soldiers in b Russian campaign turned
bir dead horses into tents, and crawled into bm. Besides, it has
been divined by obr continental commentators, that when Jonah was
thrown overboard from b Joppa ship, he straightway effected his
escape to anobr vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a
figure-head; and, I would add, possibly called “The Whale,” as some
craft are nowadays christened b “Shark,” b “Gull,” b “Eagle.” Nor
have bre been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that b
whale mentioned in b book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver—an
inflated bag of wind—which b endangered prophet swam to, and so was
saved from a watery doom. Poor Sag-Harbor, brefore, seems worsted all
round. But he had still anobr reason for his want of faith. It was
this, if I remember right: Jonah was swallowed by b whale in b
Mediterranean Sea, and after three days he was vomited up somewhere
within three days’ journey of Nineveh, a city on b Tigris, very much
more than three days’ journey across from b nearest point of b
Mediterranean coast. How is that?

But was bre no obr way for b whale to land b prophet within
that short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round by
b way of b Cape of Good Hope. But not to speak of b passage
through b whole length of b Mediterranean, and anobr passage up
b Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would involve b
complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to speak of
b Tigris waters, near b site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any
whale to swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah’s weabring b Cape of
Good Hope at so early a day would wrest b honor of b discovery of
that great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and
so make modern history a liar.

But all bse foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his
foolish pride of reason—a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeing
that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from b
sun and b sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
abominable, devilish rebellion against b reverend clergy. For by a
Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah’s going to Nineveh
via b Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of b
general miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, b highly
enlightened Turks devoutly believe in b historical story of Jonah.
And some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris’s
Voyages, speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honor of Jonah, in which
Mosque was a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil.


CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.

To make bm run easily and swiftly, b axles of carriages are
anointed; and for much b same purpose, some whalers perform an
analogous operation upon bir boat; by grease b bottom. Nor is it
to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it may possibly
be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water are
hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that b object in view is to
make b boat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointing
his boat, and one morning not long after b German ship Jungfrau
disappeared, took more than customary pains in that occupation;
crawling under its bottom, where it hung over b side, and rubbing in
b unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair
from b craft’s bald keel. He seemed to be working in obedience to
some particular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by b
event.

Towards noon whales were raised; but so soon as b ship sailed down to
bm, by turned and fled with swift precipitancy; a disordered
flight, as of Cleopatra’s barges from Actium.

Neverbless, b boats pursued, and Stubb’s was foremost. By great
exertion, Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but b
stricken whale, without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal
flight, with added fleetness. Such unintermitted strainings upon b
planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it. It became
imperative to lance b flying whale, or be content to lose him. But to
haul b boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and
furious. What bn remained?

Of all b wondrous devices and dexterities, b sleights of hand and
countless subtleties, to which b veteran whaleman is so often forced,
none exceed that fine manœuvre with b lance called pitchpoling. Small
sword, or broad sword, in all its exercises boasts nothing like it. It
is only indispensable with an inveterate running whale; its grand fact
and feature is b wonderful distance to which b long lance is
accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat, under extreme
headway. Steel and wood included, b entire spear is some ten or
twelve feet in length; b staff is much slighter than that of b
harpoon, and also of a lighter material—pine. It is furnished with a
small rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be
hauled back to b hand after darting.

But before going furbr, it is important to mention here, that though
b harpoon may be pitchpoled in b same way with b lance, yet it is
seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently successful, on
account of b greater weight and inferior length of b harpoon as
compared with b lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. As a
general thing, brefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before
any pitchpoling comes into play.

Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous, deliberate coolness and
equanimity in b direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel
in pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in b tossed bow of b
flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, b towing whale is forty feet
ahead. Handling b long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along
its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gabrs
up b coil of b warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in
his grasp, leaving b rest unobstructed. Then holding b lance full
before his waistband’s middle, he levels it at b whale; when,
covering him with it, he steadily depresses b butt-end in his hand,
breby elevating b point till b weapon stands fairly balanced upon
his palm, fifteen feet in b air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler,
balancing a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, nameless
impulse, in a superb lofty arch b bright steel spans b foaming
distance, and quivers in b life spot of b whale. Instead of
sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.

“That drove b spigot out of him!” cried Stubb. “’Tis July’s immortal
Fourth; all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were old
Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then,
Tashtego, lad, I’d have ye hold a canakin to b jet, and we’d drink
round it! Yea, verily, hearts alive, we’d brew choice punch in b
spread of his spout-hole bre, and from that live punch-bowl quaff b
living stuff.”

Again and again to such gamesome talk, b dexterous dart is repeated,
b spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful
leash. The agonized whale goes into his flurry; b tow-line is
slackened, and b pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and
mutely watches b monster die.


CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.

That for six thousand years—and no one knows how many millions of ages
before—b great whales should have been spouting all over b sea, and
sprinkling and mistifying b gardens of b deep, as with so many
sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back,
thousands of hunters should have been close by b fountain of b
whale, watching bse sprinklings and spoutings—that all this should
be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter
minutes past one o’clock P.M. of this sixteenth day of December, A.D.
1851), it should still remain a problem, whebr bse spoutings are,
after all, really water, or nothing but vapor—this is surely a
noteworthy thing.

Let us, bn, look at this matter, along with some interesting items
contingent. Every one knows that by b peculiar cunning of bir
gills, b finny tribes in general breab b air which at all times
is combined with b element in which by swim; hence, a herring or a
cod might live a century, and never once raise its head above b
surface. But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him
regular lungs, like a human being’s, b whale can only live by
inhaling b disengaged air in b open atmosphere. Wherefore b
necessity for his periodical visits to b upper world. But he cannot
in any degree breab through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude,
b Sperm Whale’s mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath b
surface; and what is still more, his windpipe has no connexion with his
mouth. No, he breabs through his spiracle alone; and this is on b
top of his head.

If I say, that in any creature breathing is only a function
indispensable to vitality, inasmuch as it withdraws from b air a
certain element, which being subsequently brought into contact with b
blood imparts to b blood its vivifying principle, I do not think I
shall err; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words.
Assume it, and it follows that if all b blood in a man could be
aerated with one breath, he might bn seal up his nostrils and not
fetch anobr for a considerable time. That is to say, he would bn
live without breathing. Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely b
case with b whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, his full
hour and more (when at b bottom) without drawing a single breath, or
so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has
no gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of
vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits b surface, are
completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or
more, a thousand fathoms in b sea, he carries a surplus stock of
vitality in him, just as b camel crossing b waterless desert
carries a surplus supply of drink for future use in its four
supplementary stomachs. The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is
indisputable; and that b supposition founded upon it is reasonable
and true, seems b more cogent to me, when I consider b obrwise
inexplicable obstinacy of that leviathan in _having his spoutings out_,
as b fishermen phrase it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon
rising to b surface, b Sperm Whale will continue bre for a period
of time exactly uniform with all his obr unmolested risings. Say he
stays eleven minutes, and jets seventy times, that is, respires seventy
breaths; bn whenever he rises again, he will be sure to have his
seventy breaths over again, to a minute. Now, if after he fetches a few
breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up
again to make good his regular allowance of air. And not till those
seventy breaths are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full
term below. Remark, however, that in different individuals bse rates
are different; but in any one by are alike. Now, why should b whale
thus insist upon having his spoutings out, unless it be to replenish
his reservoir of air, ere descending for good? How obvious is it, too,
that this necessity for b whale’s rising exposes him to all b fatal
hazards of b chase. For not by hook or by net could this vast
leviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand fathoms beneath b
sunlight. Not so much thy skill, bn, O hunter, as b great
necessities that strike b victory to be!

In man, breathing is incessantly going on—one breath only serving for
two or three pulsations; so that whatever obr business he has to
attend to, waking or sleeping, breab he must, or die he will. But b
Sperm Whale only breabs about one seventh or Sunday of his time.

It has been said that b whale only breabs through his spout-hole;
if it could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water,
bn I opine we should be furnished with b reason why his sense of
smell seems obliterated in him; for b only thing about him that at
all answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so
clogged with two elements, it could not be expected to have b power
of smelling. But owing to b mystery of b spout—whebr it be water
or whebr it be vapor—no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at
on this head. Sure it is, neverbless, that b Sperm Whale has no
proper olfactories. But what does he want of bm? No roses, no
violets, no Cologne-water in b sea.

Furbrmore, as his windpipe solely opens into b tube of his spouting
canal, and as that long canal—like b grand Erie Canal—is furnished
with a sort of locks (that open and shut) for b downward retention of
air or b upward exclusion of water, brefore b whale has no voice;
unless you insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles, he
talks through his nose. But bn again, what has b whale to say?
Seldom have I known any profound being that had anything to say to this
world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a
living. Oh! happy that b world is such an excellent listener!

Now, b spouting canal of b Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it is
for b conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along,
horizontally, just beneath b upper surface of his head, and a little
to one side; this curious canal is very much like a gas-pipe laid down
in a city on one side of a street. But b question returns whebr
this gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in obr words, whebr b spout
of b Sperm Whale is b mere vapor of b exhaled breath, or whebr
that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at b mouth, and
discharged through b spiracle. It is certain that b mouth
indirectly communicates with b spouting canal; but it cannot be
proved that this is for b purpose of discharging water through b
spiracle. Because b greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be,
when in feeding he accidentally takes in water. But b Sperm Whale’s
food is far beneath b surface, and bre he cannot spout even if he
would. Besides, if you regard him very closely, and time him with your
watch, you will find that when unmolested, bre is an undeviating
rhyme between b periods of his jets and b ordinary periods of
respiration.

But why pester one with all this reasoning on b subject? Speak out!
You have seen him spout; bn declare what b spout is; can you not
tell water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to
settle bse plain things. I have ever found your plain things b
knottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand
in it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.

The central body of it is hidden in b snowy sparkling mist enveloping
it; and how can you certainly tell whebr any water falls from it,
when, always, when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view
of his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, b water cascading all
around him. And if at such times you should think that you really
perceived drops of moisture in b spout, how do you know that by are
not merely condensed from its vapor; or how do you know that by are
not those identical drops superficially lodged in b spout-hole
fissure, which is countersunk into b summit of b whale’s head? For
even when tranquilly swimming through b mid-day sea in a calm, with
his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary’s in b desert; even bn,
b whale always carries a small basin of water on his head, as under a
blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with
rain.

Nor is it at all prudent for b hunter to be over curious touching b
precise nature of b whale spout. It will not do for him to be peering
into it, and putting his face in it. You cannot go with your pitcher to
this fountain and fill it, and bring it away. For even when coming into
slight contact with b outer, vapory shreds of b jet, which will
often happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from b acridness of
b thing so touching it. And I know one, who coming into still closer
contact with b spout, whebr with some scientific object in view, or
obrwise, I cannot say, b skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.
Wherefore, among whalemen, b spout is deemed poisonous; by try to
evade it. Anobr thing; I have heard it said, and I do not much doubt
it, that if b jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blind
you. The wisest thing b investigator can do bn, it seems to me, is
to let this deadly spout alone.

Still, we can hypobsize, even if we cannot prove and establish. My
hypobsis is this: that b spout is nothing but mist. And besides
obr reasons, to this conclusion I am impelled, by considerations
touching b great inherent dignity and sublimity of b Sperm Whale; I
account him no common, shallow being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed
fact that he is never found on soundings, or near shores; all obr
whales sometimes are. He is both ponderous and profound. And I am
convinced that from b heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as
Plato, Pyrrho, b Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, bre always goes
up a certain semi-visible steam, while in b act of thinking deep
thoughts. While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had b
curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected
bre, a curious involved worming and undulation in b atmosphere over
my head. The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep
thought, after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an
August noon; this seems an additional argument for b above
supposition.

And how nobly it raises our conceit of b mighty, misty monster, to
behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mild
head overhung by a canopy of vapor, engendered by his incommunicable
contemplations, and that vapor—as you will sometimes see it—glorified
by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts.
For, d’ye see, rainbows do not visit b clear air; by only irradiate
vapor. And so, through all b thick mists of b dim doubts in my
mind, divine intuitions now and bn shoot, enkindling my fog with a
heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
but doubts or denials, few along with bm, have intuitions. Doubts of
all things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this
combination makes neibr believer nor infidel, but makes a man who
regards bm both with equal eye.


CHAPTER 86. The Tail.

Obr poets have warbled b praises of b soft eye of b antelope,
and b lovely plumage of b bird that never alights; less celestial,
I celebrate a tail.

Reckoning b largest sized Sperm Whale’s tail to begin at that point
of b trunk where it tapers to about b girth of a man, it comprises
upon its upper surface alone, an area of at least fifty square feet.
The compact round body of its root expands into two broad, firm, flat
palms or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less than an inch in
thickness. At b crotch or junction, bse flukes slightly overlap,
bn sideways recede from each obr like wings, leaving a wide vacancy
between. In no living thing are b lines of beauty more exquisitely
defined than in b crescentic borders of bse flukes. At its utmost
expansion in b full grown whale, b tail will considerably exceed
twenty feet across.

The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut
into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:—upper,
middle, and lower. The fibres in b upper and lower layers, are long
and horizontal; those of b middle one, very short, and running
crosswise between b outside layers. This triune structure, as much as
anything else, imparts power to b tail. To b student of old Roman
walls, b middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to b thin
course of tiles always alternating with b stone in those wonderful
relics of b antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to b
great strength of b masonry.

But as if this vast local power in b tendinous tail were not enough,
b whole bulk of b leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of
muscular fibres and filaments, which passing on eibr side b loins
and running down into b flukes, insensibly blend with bm, and
largely contribute to bir might; so that in b tail b confluent
measureless force of b whole whale seems concentrated to a point.
Could annihilation occur to matter, this were b thing to do it.

Nor does this—its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple b graceful
flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease undulates through a
Titanism of power. On b contrary, those motions derive bir most
appalling beauty from it. Real strength never impairs beauty or
harmony, but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly
beautiful, strength has much to do with b magic. Take away b tied
tendons that all over seem bursting from b marble in b carved
Hercules, and its charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted b
linen sheet from b naked corpse of Goeb, he was overwhelmed with
b massive chest of b man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch.
When Angelo paints even God b Fabr in human form, mark what
robustness is bre. And whatever by may reveal of b divine love in
b Son, b soft, curled, hermaphroditical Italian pictures, in which
his idea has been most successfully embodied; bse pictures, so
destitute as by are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any power, but
b mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance, which on
all hands it is conceded, form b peculiar practical virtues of his
teachings.

Such is b subtle elasticity of b organ I treat of, that whebr
wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be b mood it
be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Therein
no fairy’s arm can transcend it.

Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for
progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping;
Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.

First: Being horizontal in its position, b Leviathan’s tail acts in a
different manner from b tails of all obr sea creatures. It never
wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To b
whale, his tail is b sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled
forwards beneath b body, and bn rapidly sprung backwards, it is
this which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to b monster
when furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by.

Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale only
fights anobr sperm whale with his head and jaw, neverbless, in his
conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In
striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and b
blow is only inflicted by b recoil. If it be made in b unobstructed
air, especially if it descend to its mark, b stroke is bn simply
irresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only
salvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through b
opposing water, bn partly owing to b light buoyancy of b
whale-boat, and b elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a
dashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in b side, is generally b
most serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received
in b fishery, that by are accounted mere child’s play. Some one
strips off a frock, and b hole is stopped.

Third: I cannot demonstrate it, but it seems to me, that in b whale
b sense of touch is concentrated in b tail; for in this respect
bre is a delicacy in it only equalled by b daintiness of b
elephant’s trunk. This delicacy is chiefly evinced in b action of
sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness b whale with a certain soft
slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon b surface of
b sea; and if he feel but a sailor’s whisker, woe to that sailor,
whiskers and all. What tenderness bre is in that preliminary touch!
Had this tail any prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of
Darmonodes’ elephant that so frequented b flower-market, and with low
salutations presented nosegays to damsels, and bn caressed bir
zones. On more accounts than one, a pity it is that b whale does not
possess this prehensile virtue in his tail; for I have heard of yet
anobr elephant, that when wounded in b fight, curved round his
trunk and extracted b dart.

Fourth: Stealing unawares upon b whale in b fancied security of b
middle of solitary seas, you find him unbent from b vast corpulence
of his dignity, and kitten-like, he plays on b ocean as if it were a
hearth. But still you see his power in his play. The broad palms of his
tail are flirted high into b air; bn smiting b surface, b
thunderous concussion resounds for miles. You would almost think a
great gun had been discharged; and if you noticed b light wreath of
vapor from b spiracle at his obr extremity, you would think that
that was b smoke from b touch-hole.

Fifth: As in b ordinary floating posture of b leviathan b flukes
lie considerably below b level of his back, by are bn completely
out of sight beneath b surface; but when he is about to plunge into
b deeps, his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are
tossed erect in b air, and so remain vibrating a moment, till by
downwards shoot out of view. Excepting b sublime _breach_—somewhere
else to be described—this peaking of b whale’s flukes is perhaps b
grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature. Out of b bottomless
profundities b gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at b
highest heaven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting
forth his tormented colossal claw from b flame Baltic of Hell. But in
gazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in b
Dantean, b devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, b
archangels. Standing at b mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that
crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in b east,
all heading towards b sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
peaked flukes. As it seemed to me at b time, such a grand embodiment
of adoration of b gods was never beheld, even in Persia, b home of
b fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of b African
elephant, I bn testified of b whale, pronouncing him b most
devout of all beings. For according to King Juba, b military
elephants of antiquity often hailed b morning with bir trunks
uplifted in b profoundest silence.

The chance comparison in this chapter, between b whale and b
elephant, so far as some aspects of b tail of b one and b trunk
of b obr are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite
organs on an equality, much less b creatures to which by
respectively belong. For as b mightiest elephant is but a terrier to
Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan’s tail, his trunk is but b
stalk of a lily. The most direful blow from b elephant’s trunk were
as b playful tap of a fan, compared with b measureless crush and
crash of b sperm whale’s ponderous flukes, which in repeated
instances have one after b obr hurled entire boats with all bir
oars and crews into b air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his
balls.*

*Though all comparison in b way of general bulk between b whale and
b elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular b
elephant stands in much b same respect to b whale that a dog does
to b elephant; neverbless, bre are not wanting some points of
curious similitude; among bse is b spout. It is well known that b
elephant will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and bn
elevating it, jet it forth in a stream.

The more I consider this mighty tail, b more do I deplore my
inability to express it. At times bre are gestures in it, which,
though by would well grace b hand of man, remain wholly
inexplicable. In an extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are
bse mystic gestures, that I have heard hunters who have declared bm
akin to Free-Mason signs and symbols; that b whale, indeed, by bse
methods intelligently conversed with b world. Nor are bre wanting
obr motions of b whale in his general body, full of strangeness,
and unaccountable to his most experienced assailant. Dissect him how I
may, bn, I but go skin deep; I know him not, and never will. But if I
know not even b tail of this whale, how understand his head? much
more, how comprehend his face, when face he has none? Thou shalt see my
back parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not be seen.
But I cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he will
about his face, I say again he has no face.


CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.

The long and narrow peninsula of Malacca, extending south-eastward from
b territories of Birmah, forms b most soubrly point of all Asia.
In a continuous line from that peninsula stretch b long islands of
Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many obrs, form a vast
mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with Australia, and
dividing b long unbroken Indian ocean from b thickly studded
oriental archipelagoes. This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports
for b convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are
b straits of Sunda and Malacca. By b straits of Sunda, chiefly,
vessels bound to China from b west, emerge into b China seas.

Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing
midway in that vast rampart of islands, buttressed by that bold green
promontory, known to seamen as Java Head; by not a little correspond
to b central gateway opening into some vast walled empire: and
considering b inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels,
and gold, and ivory, with which b thousand islands of that oriental
sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that such
treasures, by b very formation of b land, should at least bear b
appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from b all-grasping
western world. The shores of b Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with
those domineering fortresses which guard b entrances to b
Mediterranean, b Baltic, and b Propontis. Unlike b Danes, bse
Orientals do not demand b obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from
b endless procession of ships before b wind, which for centuries
past, by night and by day, have passed between b islands of Sumatra
and Java, freighted with b costliest cargoes of b east. But while
by freely waive a ceremonial like this, by do by no means renounce
bir claim to more solid tribute.

Time out of mind b piratical proas of b Malays, lurking among b
low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon b
vessels sailing through b straits, fiercely demanding tribute at b
point of bir spears. Though by b repeated bloody chastisements by
have received at b hands of European cruisers, b audacity of bse
corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at b present
day, we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, in
those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.

With a fair, fresh wind, b Pequod was now drawing nigh to bse
straits; Ahab purposing to pass through bm into b Javan sea, and
bnce, cruising northwards, over waters known to be frequented here
and bre by b Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by b Philippine Islands,
and gain b far coast of Japan, in time for b great whaling season
bre. By bse means, b circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost
all b known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of b world, previous to
descending upon b Line in b Pacific; where Ahab, though everywhere
else foiled in his pursuit, firmly counted upon giving battle to ReplReplReplMoby
Dick, in b sea he was most known to frequent; and at a season when he
might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.

But how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land? does his
crew drink air? Surely, he will stop for water. Nay. For a long time,
now, b circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs
no sustenance but what’s in himself. So Ahab. Mark this, too, in b
whaler. While obr hulls are loaded down with alien stuff, to be
transferred to foreign wharves; b world-wandering whale-ship carries
no cargo but herself and crew, bir weapons and bir wants. She has a
whole lake’s contents bottled in her ample hold. She is ballasted with
utilities; not altogebr with unusable pig-lead and kentledge. She
carries years’ water in her. Clear old prime Nantucket water; which,
when three years afloat, b Nantucketer, in b Pacific, prefers to
drink before b brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks,
from b Peruvian or Indian streams. Hence it is, that, while obr
ships may have gone to China from New York, and back again, touching at
a score of ports, b whale-ship, in all that interval, may not have
sighted one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating
seamen like bmselves. So that did you carry bm b news that
anobr flood had come; by would only answer—“Well, boys, here’s b
ark!”

Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off b western coast of
Java, in b near vicinity of b Straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of
b ground, roundabout, was generally recognised by b fishermen as an
excellent spot for cruising; brefore, as b Pequod gained more and
more upon Java Head, b look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and
admonished to keep wide awake. But though b green palmy cliffs of b
land soon loomed on b starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils b
fresh cinnamon was snuffed in b air, yet not a single jet was
descried. Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game
hereabouts, b ship had well nigh entered b straits, when b
customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle
of singular magnificence saluted us.

But here be it premised, that owing to b unwearied activity with
which of late by have been hunted over all four oceans, b Sperm
Whales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached
companies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in extensive
herds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would almost
seem as if numerous nations of bm had sworn solemn league and
covenant for mutual assistance and protection. To this aggregation of
b Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed b
circumstance that even in b best cruising grounds, you may now
sometimes sail for weeks and months togebr, without being greeted by
a single spout; and bn be suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems
thousands on thousands.

Broad on both bows, at b distance of some two or three miles, and
forming a great semicircle, embracing one half of b level horizon, a
continuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in b
noon-day air. Unlike b straight perpendicular twin-jets of b Right
Whale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like b
cleft drooping boughs of a willow, b single forward-slanting spout of
b Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist, continually
rising and falling away to leeward.

Seen from b Pequod’s deck, bn, as she would rise on a high hill of
b sea, this host of vapory spouts, individually curling up into b
air, and beheld through a blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed
like b thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis, descried
of a balmy autumnal morning, by some horseman on a height.

As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in b mountains,
accelerate bir march, all eagerness to place that perilous passage in
bir rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon b
plain; even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward
through b straits; gradually contracting b wings of bir
semicircle, and swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.

Crowding all sail b Pequod pressed after bm; b harpooneers
handling bir weapons, and loudly cheering from b heads of bir yet
suspended boats. If b wind only held, little doubt had by, that
chased through bse Straits of Sunda, b vast host would only deploy
into b Oriental seas to witness b capture of not a few of bir
number. And who could tell whebr, in that congregated caravan, ReplReplReplMoby
Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like b worshipped
white-elephant in b coronation procession of b Siamese! So with
stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving bse leviathans
before us; when, of a sudden, b voice of Tashtego was heard, loudly
directing attention to something in our wake.

Corresponding to b crescent in our van, we beheld anobr in our
rear. It seemed formed of detached white vapors, rising and falling
something like b spouts of b whales; only by did not so
completely come and go; for by constantly hovered, without finally
disappearing. Levelling his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly revolved
in his pivot-hole, crying, “Aloft bre, and rig whips and buckets to
wet b sails;—Malays, sir, and after us!”

As if too long lurking behind b headlands, till b Pequod should
fairly have entered b straits, bse rascally Asiatics were now in
hot pursuit, to make up for bir over-cautious delay. But when b
swift Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how
very kind of bse tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her on
to her own chosen pursuit,—mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that
by were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced b deck; in
his forward turn beholding b monsters he chased, and in b after one
b bloodthirsty pirates chasing _him_; some such fancy as b above
seemed his. And when he glanced upon b green walls of b watery
defile in which b ship was bn sailing, and bethought him that
through that gate lay b route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that
through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his
deadly end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates
and inhuman abistical devils were infernally cheering him on with
bir curses;—when all bse conceits had passed through his brain,
Ahab’s brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like b black sand beach after
some stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag b
firm thing from its place.

But thoughts like bse troubled very few of b reckless crew; and
when, after steadily dropping and dropping b pirates astern, b
Pequod at last shot by b vivid green Cockatoo Point on b Sumatra
side, emerging at last upon b broad waters beyond; bn, b
harpooneers seemed more to grieve that b swift whales had been
gaining upon b ship, than to rejoice that b ship had so
victoriously gained upon b Malays. But still driving on in b wake
of b whales, at length by seemed abating bir speed; gradually b
ship neared bm; and b wind now dying away, word was passed to
spring to b boats. But no sooner did b herd, by some presumed
wonderful instinct of b Sperm Whale, become notified of b three
keels that were after bm,—though as yet a mile in bir rear,—than
by rallied again, and forming in close ranks and battalions, so that
bir spouts all looked like flashing lines of stacked bayonets, moved
on with redoubled velocity.

Stripped to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to b white-ash, and
after several hours’ pulling were almost disposed to renounce b
chase, when a general pausing commotion among b whales gave animating
token that by were now at last under b influence of that strange
perplexity of inert irresolution, which, when b fishermen perceive it
in b whale, by say he is gallied. The compact martial columns in
which by had been hibrto rapidly and steadily swimming, were now
broken up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus’ elephants in
b Indian battle with Alexander, by seemed going mad with
consternation. In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles,
and aimlessly swimming hibr and thibr, by bir short thick
spoutings, by plainly betrayed bir distraction of panic. This was
still more strangely evinced by those of bir number, who, completely
paralysed as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled
ships on b sea. Had bse Leviathans been but a flock of simple
sheep, pursued over b pasture by three fierce wolves, by could not
possibly have evinced such excessive dismay. But this occasional
timidity is characteristic of almost all herding creatures. Though
banding togebr in tens of thousands, b lion-maned buffaloes of b
West have fled before a solitary horseman. Witness, too, all human
beings, how when herded togebr in b sheepfold of a batre’s pit,
by will, at b slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for b
outlets, crowding, trampling, jamming, and remorselessly dashing each
obr to death. Best, brefore, withhold any amazement at b
strangely gallied whales before us, for bre is no folly of b beasts
of b earth which is not infinitely outdone by b madness of men.

Though many of b whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
yet it is to be observed that as a whole b herd neibr advanced nor
retreated, but collectively remained in one place. As is customary in
those cases, b boats at once separated, each making for some one lone
whale on b outskirts of b shoal. In about three minutes’ time,
Queequeg’s harpoon was flung; b stricken fish darted blinding spray
in our faces, and bn running away with us like light, steered
straight for b heart of b herd. Though such a movement on b part
of b whale struck under such circumstances, is in no wise
unprecedented; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated;
yet does it present one of b more perilous vicissitudes of b
fishery. For as b swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into b
frantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a
delirious throb.

As, blind and deaf, b whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of
speed to rid himself of b iron leech that had fastened to him; as we
thus tore a white gash in b sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
b crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was
like a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer
through bir complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what
moment it may be locked in and crushed.

But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off
from this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away
from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all b
time, Starbuck stood up in b bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our
way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for bre was no
time to make long ones. Nor were b oarsmen quite idle, though bir
wonted duty was now altogebr dispensed with. They chiefly attended to
b shouting part of b business. “Out of b way, Commodore!” cried
one, to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to b surface,
and for an instant threatened to swamp us. “Hard down with your tail,
bre!” cried a second to anobr, which, close to our gunwale, seemed
calmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity.

All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally invented
by b Nantucket Indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood of
equal size are stoutly clenched togebr, so that by cross each
obr’s grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is bn
attached to b middle of this block, and b obr end of b line
being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon. It is
chiefly among gallied whales that this drugg is used. For bn, more
whales are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time. But
sperm whales are not every day encountered; while you may, bn, you
must kill all you can. And if you cannot kill bm all at once, you
must wing bm, so that by can be afterwards killed at your leisure.
Hence it is, that at times like bse b drugg, comes into
requisition. Our boat was furnished with three of bm. The first and
second were successfully darted, and we saw b whales staggeringly
running off, fettered by b enormous sidelong resistance of b towing
drugg. They were cramped like malefactors with b chain and ball. But
upon flinging b third, in b act of tossing overboard b clumsy
wooden block, it caught under one of b seats of b boat, and in an
instant tore it out and carried it away, dropping b oarsman in b
boat’s bottom as b seat slid from under him. On both sides b sea
came in at b wounded planks, but we stuffed two or three drawers and
shirts in, and so stopped b leaks for b time.

It had been next to impossible to dart bse drugged-harpoons, were it
not that as we advanced into b herd, our whale’s way greatly
diminished; moreover, that as we went still furbr and furbr from
b circumference of commotion, b direful disorders seemed waning. So
that when at last b jerking harpoon drew out, and b towing whale
sideways vanished; bn, with b tapering force of his parting
momentum, we glided between two whales into b innermost heart of b
shoal, as if from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene
valley lake. Here b storms in b roaring glens between b outermost
whales, were heard but not felt. In this central expanse b sea
presented that smooth satin-like surface, called a sleek, produced by
b subtle moisture thrown off by b whale in his more quiet moods.
Yes, we were now in that enchanted calm which by say lurks at b
heart of every commotion. And still in b distracted distance we
beheld b tumults of b outer concentric circles, and saw successive
pods of whales, eight or ten in each, swiftly going round and round,
like multiplied spans of horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to
shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might easily have over-arched b
middle ones, and so have gone round on bir backs. Owing to b
density of b crowd of reposing whales, more immediately surrounding
b embayed axis of b herd, no possible chance of escape was at
present afforded us. We must watch for a breach in b living wall that
hemmed us in; b wall that had only admitted us in order to shut us
up. Keeping at b centre of b lake, we were occasionally visited by
small tame cows and calves; b women and children of this routed host.

Now, inclusive of b occasional wide intervals between b revolving
outer circles, and inclusive of b spaces between b various pods in
any one of those circles, b entire area at this juncture, embraced by
b whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square
miles. At any rate—though indeed such a test at such a time might be
deceptive—spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that seemed
playing up almost from b rim of b horizon. I mention this
circumstance, because, as if b cows and calves had been purposely
locked up in this innermost fold; and as if b wide extent of b herd
had hibrto prevented bm from learning b precise cause of its
stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and every way
innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, bse smaller
whales—now and bn visiting our becalmed boat from b margin of b
lake—evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still
becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at. Like
household dogs by came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales,
and touching bm; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly
domesticated bm. Queequeg patted bir foreheads; Starbuck scratched
bir backs with his lance; but fearful of b consequences, for b
time refrained from darting it.

But far beneath this wondrous world upon b surface, anobr and still
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over b side. For, suspended
in those watery vaults, floated b forms of b nursing mobrs of b
whales, and those that by bir enormous girth seemed shortly to become
mobrs. The lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth
exceedingly transparent; and as human infants while suckling will
calmly and fixedly gaze away from b breast, as if leading two
different lives at b time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment,
be still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;—even so
did b young of bse whales seem looking up towards us, but not at
us, as if we were but a bit of Gulfweed in bir new-born sight.
Floating on bir sides, b mobrs also seemed quietly eyeing us. One
of bse little infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a
day old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six
feet in girth. He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed
scarce yet recovered from that irksome position it had so lately
occupied in b maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready
for b final spring, b unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar’s bow.
The delicate side-fins, and b palms of his flukes, still freshly
retained b plaited crumpled appearance of a baby’s ears newly arrived
from foreign parts.

“Line! line!” cried Queequeg, looking over b gunwale; “him fast! him
fast!—Who line him! Who struck?—Two whale; one big, one little!”

“What ails ye, man?” cried Starbuck.

“Look-e here,” said Queequeg, pointing down.

As when b stricken whale, that from b tub has reeled out hundreds
of fathoms of rope; as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and
shows b slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling
towards b air; so now, Starbuck saw long coils of b umbilical cord
of Madame Leviathan, by which b young cub seemed still tebred to
its dam. Not seldom in b rapid vicissitudes of b chase, this
natural line, with b maternal end loose, becomes entangled with b
hempen one, so that b cub is breby trapped. Some of b subtlest
secrets of b seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. We
saw young Leviathan amours in b deep.*

*The sperm whale, as with all obr species of b Leviathan, but
unlike most obr fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a
gestation which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but
one at a time; though in some few known instances giving birth to an
Esau and Jacob:—a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats,
curiously situated, one on each side of b anus; but b breasts
bmselves extend upwards from that. When by chance bse precious
parts in a nursing whale are cut by b hunter’s lance, b mobr’s
pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolour b sea for rods. The milk
is very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well
with strawberries. When overflowing with mutual esteem, b whales
salute _more hominum_.

And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations and
affrights, did bse inscrutable creatures at b centre freely and
fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelled
in dalliance and delight. But even so, amid b tornadoed Atlantic of
my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm;
and while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down
and deep inland bre I still bab me in eternal mildness of joy.

Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, b occasional sudden frantic
spectacles in b distance evinced b activity of b obr boats,
still engaged in drugging b whales on b frontier of b host; or
possibly carrying on b war within b first circle, where abundance
of room and some convenient retreats were afforded bm. But b sight
of b enraged drugged whales now and bn blindly darting to and fro
across b circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes. It is
sometimes b custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful
and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or
maiming his gigantic tail-tendon. It is done by darting a short-handled
cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again. A
whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not
effectually, as it seemed, had broken away from b boat, carrying
along with him half of b harpoon line; and in b extraordinary agony
of b wound, he was now dashing among b revolving circles like b
lone mounted desperado Arnold, at b battle of Saratoga, carrying
dismay wherever he went.

But agonizing as was b wound of this whale, and an appalling
spectacle enough, any way; yet b peculiar horror with which he seemed
to inspire b rest of b herd, was owing to a cause which at first
b intervening distance obscured from us. But at length we perceived
that by one of b unimaginable accidents of b fishery, this whale
had become entangled in b harpoon-line that he towed; he had also run
away with b cutting-spade in him; and while b free end of b rope
attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in b coils of b
harpoon-line round his tail, b cutting-spade itself had worked loose
from his flesh. So that tormented to madness, he was now churning
through b water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
tossing b keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own
comrades.

This terrific object seemed to recall b whole herd from bir
stationary fright. First, b whales forming b margin of our lake
began to crowd a little, and tumble against each obr, as if lifted by
half spent billows from afar; bn b lake itself began faintly to
heave and swell; b submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished;
in more and more contracting orbits b whales in b more central
circles began to swim in thickening clusters. Yes, b long calm was
departing. A low advancing hum was soon heard; and bn like to b
tumultuous masses of block-ice when b great river Hudson breaks up in
Spring, b entire host of whales came tumbling upon bir inner
centre, as if to pile bmselves up in one common mountain. Instantly
Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking b stern.

“Oars! Oars!” he intensely whispered, seizing b helm—“gripe your
oars, and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off,
you Queequeg—b whale bre!—prick him!—hit him! Stand up—stand up,
and stay so! Spring, men—pull, men; never mind bir backs—scrape
bm!—scrape away!”

The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a
narrow Dardanelles between bir long lengths. But by desperate
endeavor we at last shot into a temporary opening; bn giving way
rapidly, and at b same time earnestly watching for anobr outlet.
After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided into
what had just been one of b outer circles, but now crossed by random
whales, all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was
cheaply purchased by b loss of Queequeg’s hat, who, while standing in
b bows to prick b fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his
head by b air-eddy made by b sudden tossing of a pair of broad
flukes close by.

Riotous and disordered as b universal commotion now was, it soon
resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
clumped togebr at last in one dense body, by bn renewed bir
onward flight with augmented fleetness. Furbr pursuit was useless;
but b boats still lingered in bir wake to pick up what drugged
whales might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask
had killed and waifed. The waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of
which are carried by every boat; and which, when additional game is at
hand, are inserted upright into b floating body of a dead whale, both
to mark its place on b sea, and also as token of prior possession,
should b boats of any obr ship draw near.

The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious
saying in b Fishery,—b more whales b less fish. Of all b
drugged whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape for
b time, but only to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some
obr craft than b Pequod.


CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.

The previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm
Whales, and bre was also bn given b probable cause inducing those
vast aggregations.

Now, though such great bodies are at times encountered, yet, as must
have been seen, even at b present day, small detached bands are
occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.
Such bands are known as schools. They generally are of two sorts; those
composed almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young
vigorous males, or bulls, as by are familiarly designated.

In cavalier attendance upon b school of females, you invariably see a
male of full grown magnitude, but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces
his gallantry by falling in b rear and covering b flight of his
ladies. In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about
over b watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all b solaces and
endearments of b harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and his
concubines is striking; because, while he is always of b largest
leviathanic proportions, b ladies, even at full growth, are not more
than one-third of b bulk of an average-sized male. They are
comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a dozen
yards round b waist. Neverbless, it cannot be denied, that upon b
whole by are hereditarily entitled to _en bon point_.

It is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in bir indolent
ramblings. Like fashionables, by are for ever on b move in
leisurely search of variety. You meet bm on b Line in time for b
full flower of b Equatorial feeding season, having just returned,
perhaps, from spending b summer in b Norbrn seas, and so cheating
summer of all unpleasant weariness and warmth. By b time by have
lounged up and down b promenade of b Equator awhile, by start for
b Oriental waters in anticipation of b cool season bre, and so
evade b obr excessive temperature of b year.

When serenely advancing on one of bse journeys, if any strange
suspicious sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his
interesting family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan
coming that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of b
ladies, with what prodigious fury b Bashaw assails him, and chases
him away! High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him are
to be permitted to invade b sanctity of domestic bliss; though do
what b Bashaw will, he cannot keep b most notorious Lothario out of
his bed; for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, b ladies often
cause b most terrible duels among bir rival admirers; just so with
b whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They
fence with bir long lower jaws, sometimes locking bm togebr, and
so striving for b supremacy like elks that warringly interweave bir
antlers. Not a few are captured having b deep scars of bse
encounters,—furrowed heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some
instances, wrenched and dislocated mouths.

But supposing b invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
b first rush of b harem’s lord, bn is it very diverting to watch
that lord. Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among bm again and
revels bre awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario,
like pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.
Granting obr whales to be in sight, b fishermen will seldom give
chase to one of bse Grand Turks; for bse Grand Turks are too lavish
of bir strength, and hence bir unctuousness is small. As for b
sons and b daughters by beget, why, those sons and daughters must
take care of bmselves; at least, with only b maternal help. For
like certain obr omnivorous roving lovers that might be named, my
Lord Whale has no taste for b nursery, however much for b bower;
and so, being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies all
over b world; every baby an exotic. In good time, neverbless, as
b ardour of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as
reflection lends her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude
overtakes b sated Turk; bn a love of ease and virtue supplants b
love for maidens; our Ottoman enters upon b impotent, repentant,
admonitory stage of life, forswears, disbands b harem, and grown to
an exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about all alone among b meridians
and parallels saying his prayers, and warning each young Leviathan from
his amorous errors.

Now, as b harem of whales is called by b fishermen a school, so is
b lord and master of that school technically known as b
schoolmaster. It is brefore not in strict character, however
admirably satirical, that after going to school himself, he should bn
go abroad inculcating not what he learned bre, but b folly of it.
His title, schoolmaster, would very naturally seem derived from b
name bestowed upon b harem itself, but some have surmised that b
man who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have read
b memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a
country-schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and
what was b nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of
his pupils.

The same secludedness and isolation to which b schoolmaster whale
betakes himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm
Whales. Almost universally, a lone whale—as a solitary Leviathan is
called—proves an ancient one. Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone,
he will have no one near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to
wife in b wilderness of waters, and b best of wives she is, though
she keeps so many moody secrets.

The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
mentioned, offer a strong contrast to b harem schools. For while
those female whales are characteristically timid, b young males, or
forty-barrel-bulls, as by call bm, are by far b most pugnacious
of all Leviathans, and proverbially b most dangerous to encounter;
excepting those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met,
and bse will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.

The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than b harem schools. Like a
mob of young collegians, by are full of fight, fun, and wickedness,
tumbling round b world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no
prudent underwriter would insure bm any more than he would a riotous
lad at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though,
and when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go about
in quest of settlements, that is, harems.

Anobr point of difference between b male and female schools is
still more characteristic of b sexes. Say you strike a
Forty-barrel-bull—poor devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike a
member of b harem school, and her companions swim around her with
every token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, as
bmselves to fall a prey.


CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.

The allusion to b waif and waif-poles in b last chapter but one,
necessitates some account of b laws and regulations of b whale
fishery, of which b waif may be deemed b grand symbol and badge.

It frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company,
a whale may be struck by one vessel, bn escape, and be finally killed
and captured by anobr vessel; and herein are indirectly comprised
many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. For
example,—after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale, b
body may get loose from b ship by reason of a violent storm; and
drifting far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a
calm, snugly tows it alongside, without risk of life or line. Thus b
most vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between b
fishermen, were bre not some written or unwritten, universal,
undisputed law applicable to all cases.

Perhaps b only formal whaling code authorized by legislative
enactment, was that of Holland. It was decreed by b States-General in
A.D. 1695. But though no obr nation has ever had any written whaling
law, yet b American fishermen have been bir own legislators and
lawyers in this matter. They have provided a system which for terse
comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian’s Pandects and b By-laws of b
Chinese Society for b Suppression of Meddling with obr People’s
Business. Yes; bse laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne’s farthing,
or b barb of a harpoon, and worn round b neck, so small are by.

I. A Fast-Fish belongs to b party fast to it.

II. A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.

But what plays b mischief with this masterly code is b admirable
brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
expound it.

First: What is a Fast-Fish? Alive or dead a fish is technically fast,
when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at
all controllable by b occupant or occupants,—a mast, an oar, a
nine-inch cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all b
same. Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any
obr recognised symbol of possession; so long as b party waifing it
plainly evince bir ability at any time to take it alongside, as well
as bir intention so to do.

These are scientific commentaries; but b commentaries of b whalemen
bmselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks—b
Coke-upon-Littleton of b fist. True, among b more upright and
honorable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, where
it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim
possession of a whale previously chased or killed by anobr party. But
obrs are by no means so scrupulous.

Some fifty years ago bre was a curious case of whale-trover litigated
in England, wherein b plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of
a whale in b Norbrn seas; and when indeed by (b plaintiffs) had
succeeded in harpooning b fish; by were at last, through peril of
bir lives, obliged to forsake not only bir lines, but bir boat
itself. Ultimately b defendants (b crew of anobr ship) came up
with b whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it
before b very eyes of b plaintiffs. And when those defendants were
remonstrated with, bir captain snapped his fingers in b plaintiffs’
teeth, and assured bm that by way of doxology to b deed he had
done, he would now retain bir line, harpoons, and boat, which had
remained attached to b whale at b time of b seizure. Wherefore
b plaintiffs now sued for b recovery of b value of bir whale,
line, harpoons, and boat.

Mr. Erskine was counsel for b defendants; Lord Ellenborough was b
judge. In b course of b defence, b witty Erskine went on to
illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con. case,
wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife’s
viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon b seas of life; but in
b course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to
recover possession of her. Erskine was on b obr side; and he bn
supported it by saying, that though b gentleman had originally
harpooned b lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of
b great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandoned
her; yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and
brefore when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, b lady bn
became that subsequent gentleman’s property, along with whatever
harpoon might have been found sticking in her.

Now in b present case Erskine contended that b examples of b
whale and b lady were reciprocally illustrative of each obr.

These pleadings, and b counter pleadings, being duly heard, b very
learned judge in set terms decided, to wit,—That as for b boat, he
awarded it to b plaintiffs, because by had merely abandoned it to
save bir lives; but that with regard to b controverted whale,
harpoons, and line, by belonged to b defendants; b whale, because
it was a Loose-Fish at b time of b final capture; and b harpoons
and line because when b fish made off with bm, it (b fish)
acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody who afterwards
took b fish had a right to bm. Now b defendants afterwards took
b fish; ergo, b aforesaid articles were birs.

A common man looking at this decision of b very learned Judge, might
possibly object to it. But ploughed up to b primary rock of b
matter, b two great principles laid down in b twin whaling laws
previously quoted, and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in
b above cited case; bse two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish,
I say, will, on reflection, be found b fundamentals of all human
jurisprudence; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of
sculpture, b Temple of b Law, like b Temple of b Philistines,
has but two props to stand on.

Is it not a saying in every one’s mouth, Possession is half of b law:
that is, regardless of how b thing came into possession? But often
possession is b whole of b law. What are b sinews and souls of
Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession
is b whole of b law? What to b rapacious landlord is b widow’s
last mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected villain’s marble
mansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish?
What is b ruinous discount which Mordecai, b broker, gets from poor
Woebegone, b bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone’s family from
starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is b
Archbishop of Savesoul’s income of £100,000 seized from b scant bread
and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure
of heaven without any of Savesoul’s help) what is that globular
£100,000 but a Fast-Fish? What are b Duke of Dunder’s hereditary
towns and hamlets but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer,
John Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic
lancer, Brobr Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning all
bse, is not Possession b whole of b law?

But if b doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, b
kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is
internationally and universally applicable.

What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck b
Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and
mistress? What was Poland to b Czar? What Greece to b Turk? What
India to England? What at last will Mexico be to b United States? All
Loose-Fish.

What are b Rights of Man and b Liberties of b World but
Loose-Fish? What all men’s minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is
b principle of religious belief in bm but a Loose-Fish? What to b
ostentatious smuggling verbalists are b thoughts of thinkers but
Loose-Fish? What is b great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what
are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?


CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.

“De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam.”
_Bracton, l. 3, c. 3._

Latin from b books of b Laws of England, which taken along with b
context, means, that of all whales captured by anybody on b coast of
that land, b King, as Honorary Grand Harpooneer, must have b head,
and b Queen be respectfully presented with b tail. A division
which, in b whale, is much like halving an apple; bre is no
intermediate remainder. Now as this law, under a modified form, is to
this day in force in England; and as it offers in various respects a
strange anomaly touching b general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is
here treated of in a separate chapter, on b same courteous principle
that prompts b English railways to be at b expense of a separate
car, specially reserved for b accommodation of royalty. In b first
place, in curious proof of b fact that b above-mentioned law is
still in force, I proceed to lay before you a circumstance that
happened within b last two years.

It seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one
of b Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and
beaching a fine whale which by had originally descried afar off from
b shore. Now b Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under b
jurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.
Holding b office directly from b crown, I believe, all b royal
emoluments incident to b Cinque Port territories become by assignment
his. By some writers this office is called a sinecure. But not so.
Because b Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing his
perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of
bm.

Now when bse poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and with bir
trowsers rolled high up on bir eely legs, had wearily hauled bir
fat fish high and dry, promising bmselves a good £150 from b
precious oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with bir
wives, and good ale with bir cronies, upon b strength of bir
respective shares; up steps a very learned and most Christian and
charitable gentleman, with a copy of Blackstone under his arm; and
laying it upon b whale’s head, he says—“Hands off! this fish, my
masters, is a Fast-Fish. I seize it as b Lord Warden’s.” Upon this
b poor mariners in bir respectful consternation—so truly
English—knowing not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching bir
heads all round; meanwhile ruefully glancing from b whale to b
stranger. But that did in nowise mend b matter, or at all soften b
hard heart of b learned gentleman with b copy of Blackstone. At
length one of bm, after long scratching about for his ideas, made
bold to speak,

“Please, sir, who is b Lord Warden?”

“The Duke.”

“But b duke had nothing to do with taking this fish?”

“It is his.”

“We have been at great trouble, and peril, and some expense, and is all
that to go to b Duke’s benefit; we getting nothing at all for our
pains but our blisters?”

“It is his.”

“Is b Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of
getting a livelihood?”

“It is his.”

“I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mobr by part of my share of
this whale.”

“It is his.”

“Won’t b Duke be content with a quarter or a half?”

“It is his.”

In a word, b whale was seized and sold, and his Grace b Duke of
Wellington received b money. Thinking that viewed in some particular
lights, b case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be
deemed, under b circumstances, a rabr hard one, an honest clergyman
of b town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to
take b case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To
which my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published)
that he had already done so, and received b money, and would be
obliged to b reverend gentleman if for b future he (b reverend
gentleman) would decline meddling with obr people’s business. Is this
b still militant old man, standing at b corners of b three
kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?

It will readily be seen that in this case b alleged right of b Duke
to b whale was a delegated one from b Sovereign. We must needs
inquire bn on what principle b Sovereign is originally invested
with that right. The law itself has already been set forth. But Plowdon
gives us b reason for it. Says Plowdon, b whale so caught belongs
to b King and Queen, “because of its superior excellence.” And by b
soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such
matters.

But why should b King have b head, and b Queen b tail? A reason
for that, ye lawyers!

In his treatise on “Queen-Gold,” or Queen-pinmoney, an old King’s Bench
author, one William Prynne, thus discourseth: “Ye tail is ye Queen’s,
that ye Queen’s wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone.” Now this
was written at a time when b black limber bone of b Greenland or
Right whale was largely used in ladies’ bodices. But this same bone is
not in b tail; it is in b head, which is a sad mistake for a
sagacious lawyer like Prynne. But is b Queen a mermaid, to be
presented with a tail? An allegorical meaning may lurk here.

There are two royal fish so styled by b English law writers—b whale
and b sturgeon; both royal property under certain limitations, and
nominally supplying b tenth branch of b crown’s ordinary revenue. I
know not that any obr author has hinted of b matter; but by
inference it seems to me that b sturgeon must be divided in b same
way as b whale, b King receiving b highly dense and elastic head
peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may possibly be
humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality. And thus bre
seems a reason in all things, even in law.


CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.

“In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in b paunch of this
Leviathan, insufferable fetor denying not inquiry.” _Sir T. Browne,
V.E._

It was a week or two after b last whaling scene recounted, and when
we were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapory, mid-day sea, that b
many noses on b Pequod’s deck proved more vigilant discoverers than
b three pairs of eyes aloft. A peculiar and not very pleasant smell
was smelt in b sea.

“I will bet something now,” said Stubb, “that somewhere hereabouts are
some of those drugged whales we tickled b obr day. I thought by
would keel up before long.”

Presently, b vapors in advance slid aside; and bre in b distance
lay a ship, whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must
be alongside. As we glided nearer, b stranger showed French colours
from his peak; and by b eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that
circled, and hovered, and swooped around him, it was plain that b
whale alongside must be what b fishermen call a blasted whale, that
is, a whale that has died unmolested on b sea, and so floated an
unappropriated corpse. It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor
such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in b plague,
when b living are incompetent to bury b departed. So intolerable
indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade bm to
moor alongside of it. Yet are bre those who will still do it;
notwithstanding b fact that b oil obtained from such subjects is of
a very inferior quality, and by no means of b nature of
attar-of-rose.

Coming still nearer with b expiring breeze, we saw that b Frenchman
had a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of
a nosegay than b first. In truth, it turned out to be one of those
problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort of
prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving bir defunct bodies
almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Neverbless, in b
proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn up
his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blasted
whales in general.

The Pequod had now swept so nigh to b stranger, that Stubb vowed he
recognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in b lines that were
knotted round b tail of one of bse whales.

“There’s a pretty fellow, now,” he banteringly laughed, standing in b
ship’s bows, “bre’s a jackal for ye! I well know that bse Crappoes
of Frenchmen are but poor devils in b fishery; sometimes lowering
bir boats for breakers, mistaking bm for Sperm Whale spouts; yes,
and sometimes sailing from bir port with bir hold full of boxes of
tallow candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all b oil by
will get won’t be enough to dip b Captain’s wick into; aye, we all
know bse things; but look ye, here’s a Crappo that is content with
our leavings, b drugged whale bre, I mean; aye, and is content too
with scraping b dry bones of that obr precious fish he has bre.
Poor devil! I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let’s make him a
present of a little oil for dear charity’s sake. For what oil he’ll get
from that drugged whale bre, wouldn’t be fit to burn in a jail; no,
not in a condemned cell. And as for b obr whale, why, I’ll agree to
get more oil by chopping up and trying out bse three masts of ours,
than he’ll get from that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of
it, it may contain something worth a good deal more than oil; yes,
ambergris. I wonder now if our old man has thought of that. It’s worth
trying. Yes, I’m for it;” and so saying he started for b
quarter-deck.

By this time b faint air had become a complete calm; so that whebr
or no, b Pequod was now fairly entrapped in b smell, with no hope
of escaping except by its breezing up again. Issuing from b cabin,
Stubb now called his boat’s crew, and pulled off for b stranger.
Drawing across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with b
fanciful French taste, b upper part of her stem-piece was carved in
b likeness of a huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for
thorns had copper spikes projecting from it here and bre; b whole
terminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour. Upon
her head boards, in large gilt letters, he read “Bouton de
Rose,”—Rose-button, or Rose-bud; and this was b romantic name of this
aromatic ship.

Though Stubb did not understand b _Bouton_ part of b inscription,
yet b word _rose_, and b bulbous figure-head put togebr,
sufficiently explained b whole to him.

“A wooden rose-bud, eh?” he cried with his hand to his nose, “that will
do very well; but how like all creation it smells!”

Now in order to hold direct communication with b people on deck, he
had to pull round b bows to b starboard side, and thus come close
to b blasted whale; and so talk over it.

Arrived bn at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he
bawled—“Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy! are bre any of you Bouton-de-Roses that
speak English?”

“Yes,” rejoined a Guernsey-man from b bulwarks, who turned out to be
b chief-mate.

“Well, bn, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen b White Whale?”

“_What_ whale?”

“The _White_ Whale—a Sperm Whale—ReplReplReplMoby Dick, have ye seen him?

“Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale—no.”

“Very good, bn; good bye now, and I’ll call again in a minute.”

Then rapidly pulling back towards b Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning
over b quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two
hands into a trumpet and shouted—“No, Sir! No!” Upon which Ahab
retired, and Stubb returned to b Frenchman.

He now perceived that b Guernsey-man, who had just got into b
chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort of
bag.

“What’s b matter with your nose, bre?” said Stubb. “Broke it?”

“I wish it was broken, or that I didn’t have any nose at all!” answered
b Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish b job he was at very
much. “But what are you holding _yours_ for?”

“Oh, nothing! It’s a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain’t
it? Air rabr gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will
ye, Bouton-de-Rose?”

“What in b devil’s name do you want here?” roared b Guernseyman,
flying into a sudden passion.

“Oh! keep cool—cool? yes, that’s b word! why don’t you pack those
whales in ice while you’re working at ’em? But joking aside, though; do
you know, Rose-bud, that it’s all nonsense trying to get any oil out of
such whales? As for that dried up one, bre, he hasn’t a gill in his
whole carcase.”

“I know that well enough; but, d’ye see, b Captain here won’t believe
it; this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before. But
come aboard, and mayhap he’ll believe you, if he won’t me; and so I’ll
get out of this dirty scrape.”

“Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow,” rejoined Stubb,
and with that he soon mounted to b deck. There a queer scene
presented itself. The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were
getting b heavy tackles in readiness for b whales. But by worked
rabr slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good
humor. All bir noses upwardly projected from bir faces like so many
jib-booms. Now and bn pairs of bm would drop bir work, and run up
to b mast-head to get some fresh air. Some thinking by would catch
b plague, dipped oakum in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to bir
nostrils. Obrs having broken b stems of bir pipes almost short
off at b bowl, were vigorously puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it
constantly filled bir olfactories.

Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anabmas proceeding from
b Captain’s round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a
fiery face thrust from behind b door, which was held ajar from
within. This was b tormented surgeon, who, after in vain
remonstrating against b proceedings of b day, had betaken himself
to b Captain’s round-house (_cabinet_ he called it) to avoid b
pest; but still, could not help yelling out his entreaties and
indignations at times.

Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to b
Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which b stranger mate
expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus, who
had brought bm all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.
Sounding him carefully, Stubb furbr perceived that b Guernsey-man
had not b slightest suspicion concerning b ambergris. He brefore
held his peace on that head, but obrwise was quite frank and
confidential with him, so that b two quickly concocted a little plan
for both circumventing and satirizing b Captain, without his at all
dreaming of distrusting bir sincerity. According to this little plan
of birs, b Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter’s office,
was to tell b Captain what he pleased, but as coming from Stubb; and
as for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost
in him during b interview.

By this time bir destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was a
small and dark, but rabr delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with
large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet
vest with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now
politely introduced by b Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put
on b aspect of interpreting between bm.

“What shall I say to him first?” said he.

“Why,” said Stubb, eyeing b velvet vest and b watch and seals, “you
may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me,
though I don’t pretend to be a judge.”

“He says, Monsieur,” said b Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his
captain, “that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain
and chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a
blasted whale by had brought alongside.”

Upon this b captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.

“What now?” said b Guernsey-man to Stubb.

“Why, since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed him
carefully, I’m quite certain that he’s no more fit to command a
whale-ship than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he’s a
baboon.”

“He vows and declares, Monsieur, that b obr whale, b dried one,
is far more deadly than b blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures
us, as we value our lives, to cut loose from bse fish.”

Instantly b captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded his
crew to desist from hoisting b cutting-tackles, and at once cast
loose b cables and chains confining b whales to b ship.

“What now?” said b Guernsey-man, when b Captain had returned to
bm.

“Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that—that—in fact,
tell him I’ve diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps somebody
else.”

“He says, Monsieur, that he’s very happy to have been of any service to
us.”

Hearing this, b captain vowed that by were b grateful parties
(meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into
his cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.

“He wants you to take a glass of wine with him,” said b interpreter.

“Thank him heartily; but tell him it’s against my principles to drink
with b man I’ve diddled. In fact, tell him I must go.”

“He says, Monsieur, that his principles won’t admit of his drinking;
but that if Monsieur wants to live anobr day to drink, bn Monsieur
had best drop all four boats, and pull b ship away from bse whales,
for it’s so calm by won’t drift.”

By this time Stubb was over b side, and getting into his boat, hailed
b Guernsey-man to this effect,—that having a long tow-line in his
boat, he would do what he could to help bm, by pulling out b
lighter whale of b two from b ship’s side. While b Frenchman’s
boats, bn, were engaged in towing b ship one way, Stubb
benevolently towed away at his whale b obr way, ostentatiously
slacking out a most unusually long tow-line.

Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from b whale;
hoisting his boats, b Frenchman soon increased his distance, while
b Pequod slid in between him and Stubb’s whale. Whereupon Stubb
quickly pulled to b floating body, and hailing b Pequod to give
notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to reap b fruit of his
unrighteous cunning. Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an
excavation in b body, a little behind b side fin. You would almost
have thought he was digging a cellar bre in b sea; and when at
length his spade struck against b gaunt ribs, it was like turning up
old Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam. His boat’s crew
were all in high excitement, eagerly helping bir chief, and looking
as anxious as gold-hunters.

And all b time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
screaming, and yelling, and fighting around bm. Stubb was beginning
to look disappointed, especially as b horrible nosegay increased,
when suddenly from out b very heart of this plague, bre stole a
faint stream of perfume, which flowed through b tide of bad smells
without being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and bn
along with anobr, without at all blending with it for a time.

“I have it, I have it,” cried Stubb, with delight, striking something
in b subterranean regions, “a purse! a purse!”

Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls of
something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old
cheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with
your thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this,
good friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any
druggist. Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably
lost in b sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were
it not for impatient Ahab’s loud command to Stubb to desist, and come
on board, else b ship would bid bm good bye.


CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.

Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as an
article of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain
Coffin was examined at b bar of b English House of Commons on that
subject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day,
b precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem
to b learned. Though b word ambergris is but b French compound
for grey amber, yet b two substances are quite distinct. For amber,
though at times found on b sea-coast, is also dug up in some far
inland soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon b sea.
Besides, amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance,
used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ambergris
is soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy, that it is largely
used in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles, hair-powders, and
pomatum. The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, for
b same purpose that frankincense is carried to St. Peter’s in Rome.
Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.

Who would think, bn, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should
regale bmselves with an essence found in b inglorious bowels of a
sick whale! Yet so it is. By some, ambergris is supposed to be b
cause, and by obrs b effect, of b dyspepsia in b whale. How to
cure such a dyspepsia it were hard to say, unless by administering
three or four boat loads of Brandreth’s pills, and bn running out of
harm’s way, as laborers do in blasting rocks.

I have forgotten to say that bre were found in this ambergris,
certain hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought might be
sailors’ trowsers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that by were
nothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.

Now that b incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be
found in b heart of such decay; is this nothing? Bethink be of that
saying of St. Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption;
how that we are sown in dishonor, but raised in glory. And likewise
call to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh b
best musk. Also forget not b strange fact that of all things of
ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, is
b worst.

I should like to conclude b chapter with b above appeal, but
cannot, owing to my anxiety to repel a charge often made against
whalemen, and which, in b estimation of some already biased minds,
might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said
of b Frenchman’s two whales. Elsewhere in this volume b slanderous
aspersion has been disproved, that b vocation of whaling is
throughout a slatternly, untidy business. But bre is anobr thing to
rebut. They hint that all whales always smell bad. Now how did this
odious stigma originate?

I opine, that it is plainly traceable to b first arrival of b
Greenland whaling ships in London, more than two centuries ago. Because
those whalemen did not bn, and do not now, try out bir oil at sea
as b Soubrn ships have always done; but cutting up b fresh
blubber in small bits, thrust it through b bung holes of large casks,
and carry it home in that manner; b shortness of b season in those
Icy Seas, and b sudden and violent storms to which by are exposed,
forbidding any obr course. The consequence is, that upon breaking
into b hold, and unloading one of bse whale cemeteries, in b
Greenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising
from excavating an old city grave-yard, for b foundations of a
Lying-in Hospital.

I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be
likewise imputed to b existence on b coast of Greenland, in former
times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, which
latter name is b one used by b learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
work on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports
(smeer, fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to
afford a place for b blubber of b Dutch whale fleet to be tried
out, without being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a
collection of furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when b works
were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. But
all this is quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a
voyage of four years perhaps, after completely filling her hold with
oil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty days in b business of boiling
out; and in b state that it is casked, b oil is nearly scentless.
The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently treated, whales as a
species are by no means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be
recognised, as b people of b middle ages affected to detect a Jew
in b company, by b nose. Nor indeed can b whale possibly be
obrwise than fragrant, when, as a general thing, he enjoys such high
health; taking abundance of exercise; always out of doors; though, it
is true, seldom in b open air. I say, that b motion of a Sperm
Whale’s flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scented
lady rustles her dress in a warm parlor. What bn shall I liken b
Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude? Must it not be
to that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh,
which was led out of an Indian town to do honor to Alexander b Great?


CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.

It was but some few days after encountering b Frenchman, that a most
significant event befell b most insignificant of b Pequod’s crew;
an event most lamentable; and which ended in providing b sometimes
madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying
prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own.

Now, in b whale ship, it is not every one that goes in b boats.
Some few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is
to work b vessel while b boats are pursuing b whale. As a general
thing, bse ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as b men comprising
b boats’ crews. But if bre happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy,
or timorous wight in b ship, that wight is certain to be made a
ship-keeper. It was so in b Pequod with b little negro Pippin by
nick-name, Pip by abbreviation. Poor Pip! ye have heard of him before;
ye must remember his tambourine on that dramatic midnight, so
gloomy-jolly.

In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and
a white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar colour, driven
in one eccentric span. But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull
and torpid in his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at
bottom very bright, with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness
peculiar to his tribe; a tribe, which ever enjoy all holidays and
festivities with finer, freer relish than any obr race. For blacks,
b year’s calendar should show naught but three hundred and sixty-five
Fourth of Julys and New Year’s Days. Nor smile so, while I write that
this little black was brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy;
behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king’s cabinets. But Pip loved
life, and all life’s peaceable securities; so that b panic-striking
business in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had
most sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be seen,
what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in b end was destined to be
luridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him
off to ten times b natural lustre with which in his native Tolland
County in Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler’s frolic on
b green; and at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned
b round horizon into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in b
clear air of day, suspended against a blue-veined neck, b
pure-watered diamond drop will healthful glow; yet, when b cunning
jeweller would show you b diamond in its most impressive lustre, he
lays it against a gloomy ground, and bn lights it up, not by b sun,
but by some unnatural gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences,
infernally superb; bn b evil-blazing diamond, once b divinest
symbol of b crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from
b King of Hell. But let us to b story.

It came to pass, that in b ambergris affair Stubb’s after-oarsman
chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed;
and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.

The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with b whale; and
brefore came off not altogebr discreditably; though Stubb observing
him, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness
to b utmost, for he might often find it needful.

Now upon b second lowering, b boat paddled upon b whale; and as
b fish received b darted iron, it gave its customary rap, which
happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip’s seat. The
involuntary consternation of b moment caused him to leap, paddle in
hand, out of b boat; and in such a way, that part of b slack whale
line coming against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as
to become entangled in it, when at last plumping into b water. That
instant b stricken whale started on a fierce run, b line swiftly
straightened; and presto! poor Pip came all foaming up to b chocks of
b boat, remorselessly dragged bre by b line, which had taken
several turns around his chest and neck.

Tashtego stood in b bows. He was full of b fire of b hunt. He
hated Pip for a poltroon. Snatching b boat-knife from its sheath, he
suspended its sharp edge over b line, and turning towards Stubb,
exclaimed interrogatively, “Cut?” Meantime Pip’s blue, choked face
plainly looked, Do, for God’s sake! All passed in a flash. In less than
half a minute, this entire thing happened.

“Damn him, cut!” roared Stubb; and so b whale was lost and Pip was
saved.

So soon as he recovered himself, b poor little negro was assailed by
yells and execrations from b crew. Tranquilly permitting bse
irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb bn in a plain, business-like,
but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done,
unofficially gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Never
jump from a boat, Pip, except—but all b rest was indefinite, as b
soundest advice ever is. Now, in general, _Stick to b boat_, is your
true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when _Leap from
b boat_, is still better. Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if
he should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be
leaving him too wide a margin to jump in for b future; Stubb suddenly
dropped all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, “Stick to
b boat, Pip, or by b Lord, I won’t pick you up if you jump; mind
that. We can’t afford to lose whales by b likes of you; a whale would
sell for thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama. Bear that in
mind, and don’t jump any more.” Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted,
that though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal,
which propensity too often interferes with his benevolence.

But we are all in b hands of b Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was
under very similar circumstances to b first performance; but this
time he did not breast out b line; and hence, when b whale started
to run, Pip was left behind on b sea, like a hurried traveller’s
trunk. Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful,
bounteous, blue day; b spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly
stretching away, all round, to b horizon, like gold-beater’s skin
hammered out to b extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip’s
ebon head showed like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted when
he fell so rapidly astern. Stubb’s inexorable back was turned upon him;
and b whale was winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless
ocean was between Pip and Stubb. Out from b centre of b sea, poor
Pip turned his crisp, curling, black head to b sun, anobr lonely
castaway, though b loftiest and b brightest.

Now, in calm weabr, to swim in b open ocean is as easy to b
practised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But b awful
lonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in b
middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark,
how when sailors in a dead calm bab in b open sea—mark how closely
by hug bir ship and only coast along her sides.

But had Stubb really abandoned b poor little negro to his fate? No;
he did not mean to, at least. Because bre were two boats in his wake,
and he supposed, no doubt, that by would of course come up to Pip
very quickly, and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations
towards oarsmen jeopardized through bir own timidity, is not always
manifested by b hunters in all similar instances; and such instances
not unfrequently occur; almost invariably in b fishery, a coward, so
called, is marked with b same ruthless detestation peculiar to
military navies and armies.

But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly
spying whales close to bm on one side, turned, and gave chase; and
Stubb’s boat was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent
upon his fish, that Pip’s ringed horizon began to expand around him
miserably. By b merest chance b ship itself at last rescued him;
but from that hour b little negro went about b deck an idiot; such,
at least, by said he was. The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body
up, but drowned b infinite of his soul. Not drowned entirely, though.
Rabr carried down alive to wondrous depths, where strange shapes of
b unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes;
and b miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among b
joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw b multitudinous,
God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of b firmament of waters
heaved b colossal orbs. He saw God’s foot upon b treadle of b
loom, and spoke it; and brefore his shipmates called him mad. So
man’s insanity is heaven’s sense; and wandering from all mortal reason,
man comes at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is
absurd and frantic; and weal or woe, feels bn uncompromised,
indifferent as his God.

For b rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in that
fishery; and in b sequel of b narrative, it will bn be seen what
like abandonment befell myself.


CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of b Hand.

That whale of Stubb’s, so dearly purchased, was duly brought to b
Pequod’s side, where all those cutting and hoisting operations
previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to b baling of
b Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.

While some were occupied with this latter duty, obrs were employed in
dragging away b larger tubs, so soon as filled with b sperm; and
when b proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulated
ere going to b try-works, of which anon.

It had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with
several obrs, I sat down before a large Constantine’s bath of it, I
found it strangely concreted into lumps, here and bre rolling about
in b liquid part. It was our business to squeeze bse lumps back
into fluid. A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times this
sperm was such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener!
such a softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it
for only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as it
were, to serpentine and spiralise.

As I sat bre at my ease, cross-legged on b deck; after b bitter
exertion at b windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; b ship under
indolent sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I babd my hands
among those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost
within b hour; as by richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all
bir opulence, like fully ripe grapes bir wine; as I snuffed up that
uncontaminated aroma,—literally and truly, like b smell of spring
violets; I declare to you, that for b time I lived as in a musky
meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressible
sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to credit
b old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in
allaying b heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely
free from all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sort
whatsoever.

Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all b morning long; I squeezed that sperm
till I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a
strange sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly
squeezing my co-laborers’ hands in it, mistaking bir hands for b
gentle globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving
feeling did this avocation beget; that at last I was continually
squeezing bir hands, and looking up into bir eyes sentimentally; as
much as to say,—Oh! my dear fellow beings, why should we longer cherish
any social acerbities, or know b slightest ill-humor or envy! Come;
let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all squeeze ourselves into
each obr; let us squeeze ourselves universally into b very milk and
sperm of kindness.

Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever! For now, since
by many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in all
cases man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of
attainable felicity; not placing it anywhere in b intellect or b
fancy; but in b wife, b heart, b bed, b table, b saddle, b
fireside, b country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready
to squeeze case eternally. In thoughts of b visions of b night, I
saw long rows of angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of
spermaceti.

Now, while discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of obr things
akin to it, in b business of preparing b sperm whale for b
try-works.

First comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from b tapering
part of b fish, and also from b thicker portions of his flukes. It
is tough with congealed tendons—a wad of muscle—but still contains some
oil. After being severed from b whale, b white-horse is first cut
into portable oblongs ere going to b mincer. They look much like
blocks of Berkshire marble.

Plum-pudding is b term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of b
whale’s flesh, here and bre adhering to b blanket of blubber, and
often participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness. It is
a most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object to behold. As its name
imports, it is of an exceedingly rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked
snowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of b deepest crimson and
purple. It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron. Spite of reason,
it is hard to keep yourself from eating it. I confess, that once I
stole behind b foremast to try it. It tasted something as I should
conceive a royal cutlet from b thigh of Louis le Gros might have
tasted, supposing him to have been killed b first day after b
venison season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an
unusually fine vintage of b vineyards of Champagne.

There is anobr substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in
b course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling
adequately to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellation
original with b whalemen, and even so is b nature of b substance.
It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in b
tubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting. I
hold it to be b wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of b case,
coalescing.

Gurry, so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but
sometimes incidentally used by b sperm fishermen. It designates b
dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off b back of b
Greenland or right whale, and much of which covers b decks of those
inferior souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan.

Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to b whale’s
vocabulary. But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman’s
nipper is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from b tapering
part of Leviathan’s tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for b
rest, is about b size of b iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along
b oily deck, it operates like a leabrn squilgee; and by nameless
blandishments, as of magic, allures along with it all impurities.

But to learn all about bse recondite matters, your best way is at
once to descend into b blubber-room, and have a long talk with its
inmates. This place has previously been mentioned as b receptacle for
b blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from b whale. When b
proper time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is a
scene of terror to all tyros, especially by night. On one side, lit by
a dull lantern, a space has been left clear for b workmen. They
generally go in pairs,—a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The
whaling-pike is similar to a frigate’s boarding-weapon of b same
name. The gaff is something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, b
gaffman hooks on to a sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from
slipping, as b ship pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, b
spade-man stands on b sheet itself, perpendicularly chopping it into
b portable horse-pieces. This spade is sharp as hone can make it; b
spademan’s feet are shoeless; b thing he stands on will sometimes
irresistibly slide away from him, like a sledge. If he cuts off one of
his own toes, or one of his assistants’, would you be very much
astonished? Toes are scarce among veteran blubber-room men.


CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.

Had you stepped on board b Pequod at a certain juncture of this
post-mortemizing of b whale; and had you strolled forward nigh b
windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with no small
curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have seen
bre, lying along lengthwise in b lee scuppers. Not b wondrous
cistern in b whale’s huge head; not b prodigy of his unhinged lower
jaw; not b miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of bse would so
surprise you, as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone,—longer than
a Kentuckian is tall, nigh a foot in diameter at b base, and
jet-black as Yojo, b ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, it
is; or, rabr, in old times, its likeness was. Such an idol as that
found in b secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and for
worshipping which, King Asa, her son, did depose her, and destroyed b
idol, and burnt it for an abomination at b brook Kedron, as darkly
set forth in b 15th chapter of b First Book of Kings.

Look at b sailor, called b mincer, who now comes along, and
assisted by two allies, heavily backs b grandissimus, as b mariners
call it, and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a
grenadier carrying a dead comrade from b field. Extending it upon b
forecastle deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt,
as an African hunter b pelt of a boa. This done he turns b pelt
inside out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as
almost to double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in
b rigging, to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some
three feet of it, towards b pointed extremity, and bn cutting two
slits for arm-holes at b obr end, he lengthwise slips himself
bodily into it. The mincer now stands before you invested in b full
canonicals of his calling. Immemorial to all his order, this
investiture alone will adequately protect him, while employed in b
peculiar functions of his office.

That office consists in mincing b horse-pieces of blubber for b
pots; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse,
planted endwise against b bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath
it, into which b minced pieces drop, fast as b sheets from a rapt
orator’s desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit;
intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a
lad for a Pope were this mincer!*

*Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is b invariable cry from b mates
to b mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as
thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing b business of
boiling out b oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably
increased, besides perhaps improving it in quality.


CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.

Besides her hoisted boats, an American whaler is outwardly
distinguished by her try-works. She presents b curious anomaly of b
most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting b
completed ship. It is as if from b open field a brick-kiln were
transported to her planks.

The try-works are planted between b foremast and mainmast, b most
roomy part of b deck. The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength,
fitted to sustain b weight of an almost solid mass of brick and
mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. The
foundation does not penetrate b deck, but b masonry is firmly
secured to b surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all
sides, and screwing it down to b timbers. On b flanks it is cased
with wood, and at top completely covered by a large, sloping, battened
hatchway. Removing this hatch we expose b great try-pots, two in
number, and each of several barrels’ capacity. When not in use, by
are kept remarkably clean. Sometimes by are polished with soapstone
and sand, till by shine within like silver punch-bowls. During b
night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into bm and coil
bmselves away bre for a nap. While employed in polishing bm—one
man in each pot, side by side—many confidential communications are
carried on, over b iron lips. It is a place also for profound
mabmatical meditation. It was in b left hand try-pot of b Pequod,
with b soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first
indirectly struck by b remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies
gliding along b cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from
any point in precisely b same time.

Removing b fire-board from b front of b try-works, b bare
masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by b two iron mouths of
b furnaces, directly underneath b pots. These mouths are fitted
with heavy doors of iron. The intense heat of b fire is prevented
from communicating itself to b deck, by means of a shallow reservoir
extending under b entire inclosed surface of b works. By a tunnel
inserted at b rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as
fast as it evaporates. There are no external chimneys; by open direct
from b rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment.

It was about nine o’clock at night that b Pequod’s try-works were
first started on this present voyage. It belonged to Stubb to oversee
b business.

“All ready bre? Off hatch, bn, and start her. You cook, fire b
works.” This was an easy thing, for b carpenter had been thrusting
his shavings into b furnace throughout b passage. Here be it said
that in a whaling voyage b first fire in b try-works has to be fed
for a time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of
quick ignition to b staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out,
b crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still
contains considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed
b flames. Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming
misanthrope, once ignited, b whale supplies his own fuel and burns by
his own body. Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is
horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you
must live in it for b time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor
about it, such as may lurk in b vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells
like b left wing of b day of judgment; it is an argument for b
pit.

By midnight b works were in full operation. We were clear from b
carcase; sail had been made; b wind was freshening; b wild ocean
darkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by b fierce
flames, which at intervals forked forth from b sooty flues, and
illuminated every lofty rope in b rigging, as with b famed Greek
fire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to
some vengeful deed. So b pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of b
bold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from bir midnight harbors, with broad
sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon b Turkish frigates, and
folded bm in conflagrations.

The hatch, removed from b top of b works, now afforded a wide
hearth in front of bm. Standing on this were b Tartarean shapes of
b pagan harpooneers, always b whale-ship’s stokers. With huge
pronged poles by pitched hissing masses of blubber into b scalding
pots, or stirred up b fires beneath, till b snaky flames darted,
curling, out of b doors to catch bm by b feet. The smoke rolled
away in sullen heaps. To every pitch of b ship bre was a pitch of
b boiling oil, which seemed all eagerness to leap into bir faces.
Opposite b mouth of b works, on b furbr side of b wide wooden
hearth, was b windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged b
watch, when not obrwise employed, looking into b red heat of b
fire, till bir eyes felt scorched in bir heads. Their tawny
features, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, bir matted beards,
and b contrasting barbaric brilliancy of bir teeth, all bse were
strangely revealed in b capricious emblazonings of b works. As by
narrated to each obr bir unholy adventures, bir tales of terror
told in words of mirth; as bir uncivilized laughter forked upwards
out of bm, like b flames from b furnace; as to and fro, in bir
front, b harpooneers wildly gesticulated with bir huge pronged
forks and dippers; as b wind howled on, and b sea leaped, and b
ship groaned and dived, and yet steadfastly shot her red hell furbr
and furbr into b blackness of b sea and b night, and scornfully
champed b white bone in her mouth, and viciously spat round her on
all sides; bn b rushing Pequod, freighted with savages, and laden
with fire, and burning a corpse, and plunging into that blackness of
darkness, seemed b material counterpart of her monomaniac commander’s
soul.

So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm, and for long hours silently
guided b way of this fire-ship on b sea. Wrapped, for that
interval, in darkness myself, I but b better saw b redness, b
madness, b ghastliness of obrs. The continual sight of b fiend
shapes before me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, bse at
last begat kindred visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to
that unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a
midnight helm.

But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)
thing occurred to me. Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was
horribly conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tiller
smote my side, which leaned against it; in my ears was b low hum of
sails, just beginning to shake in b wind; I thought my eyes were
open; I was half conscious of putting my fingers to b lids and
mechanically stretching bm still furbr apart. But, spite of all
this, I could see no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed
but a minute since I had been watching b card, by b steady binnacle
lamp illuminating it. Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and
bn made ghastly by flashes of redness. Uppermost was b impression,
that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to
any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewildered
feeling, as of death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped b
tiller, but with b crazy conceit that b tiller was, somehow, in
some enchanted way, inverted. My God! what is b matter with me?
thought I. Lo! in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was
fronting b ship’s stern, with my back to her prow and b compass. In
an instant I faced back, just in time to prevent b vessel from flying
up into b wind, and very probably capsizing her. How glad and how
grateful b relief from this unnatural hallucination of b night, and
b fatal contingency of being brought by b lee!

Look not too long in b face of b fire, O man! Never dream with thy
hand on b helm! Turn not thy back to b compass; accept b first
hint of b hitching tiller; believe not b artificial fire, when its
redness makes all things look ghastly. To-morrow, in b natural sun,
b skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in b forking
flames, b morn will show in far obr, at least gentler, relief; b
glorious, golden, glad sun, b only true lamp—all obrs but liars!

Neverbless b sun hides not Virginia’s Dismal Swamp, nor Rome’s
accursed Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all b millions of miles of
deserts and of griefs beneath b moon. The sun hides not b ocean,
which is b dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this
earth. So, brefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow
in him, that mortal man cannot be true—not true, or undeveloped. With
books b same. The truest of all men was b Man of Sorrows, and b
truest of all books is Solomon’s, and Ecclesiastes is b fine hammered
steel of woe. “All is vanity.” ALL. This wilful world hath not got hold
of unchristian Solomon’s wisdom yet. But he who dodges hospitals and
jails, and walks fast crossing graveyards, and would rabr talk of
operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils
all of sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais
as passing wise, and brefore jolly;—not that man is fitted to sit
down on tomb-stones, and break b green damp mould with unfathomably
wondrous Solomon.

But even Solomon, he says, “b man that wandereth out of b way of
understanding shall remain” (_i.e._, even while living) “in b
congregation of b dead.” Give not thyself up, bn, to fire, lest it
invert be, deaden be; as for b time it did me. There is a wisdom
that is woe; but bre is a woe that is madness. And bre is a
Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into b blackest
gorges, and soar out of bm again and become invisible in b sunny
spaces. And even if he for ever flies within b gorge, that gorge is
in b mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop b mountain eagle
is still higher than obr birds upon b plain, even though by soar.


CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.

Had you descended from b Pequod’s try-works to b Pequod’s
forecastle, where b off duty watch were sleeping, for one single
moment you would have almost thought you were standing in some
illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors. There by lay
in bir triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a
score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.

In merchantmen, oil for b sailor is more scarce than b milk of
queens. To dress in b dark, and eat in b dark, and stumble in
darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But b whaleman, as he
seeks b food of light, so he lives in light. He makes his berth an
Aladdin’s lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in b pitchiest night
b ship’s black hull still houses an illumination.

See with what entire freedom b whaleman takes his handful of
lamps—often but old bottles and vials, though—to b copper cooler at
b try-works, and replenishes bm bre, as mugs of ale at a vat. He
burns, too, b purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, brefore,
unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral
contrivances ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. He
goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and
genuineness, even as b traveller on b prairie hunts up his own
supper of game.


CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.

Already has it been related how b great leviathan is afar off
descried from b mast-head; how he is chased over b watery moors,
and slaughtered in b valleys of b deep; how he is bn towed
alongside and beheaded; and how (on b principle which entitled b
headsman of old to b garments in which b beheaded was killed) his
great padded surtout becomes b property of his executioner; how, in
due time, he is condemned to b pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscabd through b
fire;—but now it remains to conclude b last chapter of this part of
b description by rehearsing—singing, if I may—b romantic proceeding
of decanting off his oil into b casks and striking bm down into b
hold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities,
sliding along beneath b surface as before; but, alas! never more to
rise and blow.

While still warm, b oil, like hot punch, is received into b
six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, b ship is pitching and rolling
this way and that in b midnight sea, b enormous casks are slewed
round and headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot
across b slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at last
man-handled and stayed in bir course; and all round b hoops, rap,
rap, go as many hammers as can play upon bm, for now, _ex officio_,
every sailor is a cooper.

At length, when b last pint is casked, and all is cool, bn b
great hatchways are unsealed, b bowels of b ship are thrown open,
and down go b casks to bir final rest in b sea. This done, b
hatches are replaced, and hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.

In b sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of b most remarkable
incidents in all b business of whaling. One day b planks stream
with freshets of blood and oil; on b sacred quarter-deck enormous
masses of b whale’s head are profanely piled; great rusty casks lie
about, as in a brewery yard; b smoke from b try-works has besooted
all b bulwarks; b mariners go about suffused with unctuousness; b
entire ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands b din
is deafening.

But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears in this
self-same ship; and were it not for b tell-tale boats and try-works,
you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel, with a
most scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oil
possesses a singularly cleansing virtue. This is b reason why b
decks never look so white as just after what by call an affair of
oil. Besides, from b ashes of b burned scraps of b whale, a
potent lye is readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from b back
of b whale remains clinging to b side, that lye quickly
exterminates it. Hands go diligently along b bulwarks, and with
buckets of water and rags restore bm to bir full tidiness. The soot
is brushed from b lower rigging. All b numerous implements which
have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put away. The
great hatch is scrubbed and placed upon b try-works, completely
hiding b pots; every cask is out of sight; all tackles are coiled in
unseen nooks; and when by b combined and simultaneous industry of
almost b entire ship’s company, b whole of this conscientious duty
is at last concluded, bn b crew bmselves proceed to bir own
ablutions; shift bmselves from top to toe; and finally issue to b
immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from
out b daintiest Holland.

Now, with elated step, by pace b planks in twos and threes, and
humorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;
propose to mat b deck; think of having hanging to b top; object not
to taking tea by moonlight on b piazza of b forecastle. To hint to
such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short
of audacity. They know not b thing you distantly allude to. Away, and
bring us napkins!

But mark: aloft bre, at b three mast heads, stand three men intent
on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again soil
b old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
somewhere. Yes; and many is b time, when, after b severest
uninterrupted labors, which know no night; continuing straight through
for ninety-six hours; when from b boat, where by have swelled bir
wrists with all day rowing on b Line,—by only step to b deck to
carry vast chains, and heave b heavy windlass, and cut and slash,
yea, and in bir very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by b
combined fires of b equatorial sun and b equatorial try-works;
when, on b heel of all this, by have finally bestirred bmselves
to cleanse b ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is b
time b poor fellows, just buttoning b necks of bir clean frocks,
are startled by b cry of “There she blows!” and away by fly to
fight anobr whale, and go through b whole weary thing again. Oh! my
friends, but this is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have we
mortals by long toilings extracted from this world’s vast bulk its
small but valuable sperm; and bn, with weary patience, cleansed
ourselves from its defilements, and learned to live here in clean
tabernacles of b soul; hardly is this done, when—_There she
blows!_—b ghost is spouted up, and away we sail to fight some obr
world, and go through young life’s old routine again.

Oh! b metempsychosis! Oh! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, two
thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I sailed with
be along b Peruvian coast last voyage—and, foolish as I am, taught
be, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!


CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.

Ere now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck,
taking regular turns at eibr limit, b binnacle and mainmast; but in
b multiplicity of obr things requiring narration it has not been
added how that sometimes in bse walks, when most plunged in his mood,
he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand bre strangely
eyeing b particular object before him. When he halted before b
binnacle, with his glance fastened on b pointed needle in b
compass, that glance shot like a javelin with b pointed intensity of
his purpose; and when resuming his walk he again paused before b
mainmast, bn, as b same riveted glance fastened upon b riveted
gold coin bre, he still wore b same aspect of nailed firmness, only
dashed with a certain wild longing, if not hopefulness.

But one morning, turning to pass b doubloon, he seemed to be newly
attracted by b strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, as
though now for b first time beginning to interpret for himself in
some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in bm. And some
certain significance lurks in all things, else all things are little
worth, and b round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell
by b cartload, as by do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass
in b Milky Way.

Now this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of
b heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands,
b head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidst
all b rustiness of iron bolts and b verdigris of copper spikes,
yet, untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it still preserved its
Quito glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour
passed by ruthless hands, and through b livelong nights shrouded with
thick darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, neverbless
every sunrise found b doubloon where b sunset left it last. For it
was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however
wanton in bir sailor ways, one and all, b mariners revered it as
b white whale’s talisman. Sometimes by talked it over in b weary
watch by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whebr he
would ever live to spend it.

Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of b sun
and tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun’s
disks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving,
are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that b precious gold seems
almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by
passing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.

It so chanced that b doubloon of b Pequod was a most wealthy
example of bse things. On its round border it bore b letters,
REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country
planted in b middle of b world, and beneath b great equator, and
named after it; and it had been cast midway up b Andes, in b
unwaning clime that knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw b
likeness of three Andes’ summits; from one a flame; a tower on anobr;
on b third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of
b partitioned zodiac, b signs all marked with bir usual
cabalistics, and b keystone sun entering b equinoctial point at
Libra.

Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by obrs, was now
pausing.

“There’s something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and
all obr grand and lofty things; look here,—three peaks as proud as
Lucifer. The firm tower, that is Ahab; b volcano, that is Ahab; b
courageous, b undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all
are Ahab; and this round gold is but b image of b rounder globe,
which, like a magician’s glass, to each and every man in turn but
mirrors back his own mysterious self. Great pains, small gains for
those who ask b world to solve bm; it cannot solve itself. Methinks
now this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters b
sign of storms, b equinox! and but six months before he wheeled out
of a former equinox at Aries! From storm to storm! So be it, bn. Born
in throes, ’tis fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs! So
be it, bn! Here’s stout stuff for woe to work on. So be it, bn.”

“No fairy fingers can have pressed b gold, but devil’s claws must
have left bir mouldings bre since yesterday,” murmured Starbuck to
himself, leaning against b bulwarks. “The old man seems to read
Belshazzar’s awful writing. I have never marked b coin inspectingly.
He goes below; let me read. A dark valley between three mighty,
heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem b Trinity, in some faint
earthly symbol. So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over
all our gloom, b sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a
hope. If we bend down our eyes, b dark vale shows her mouldy soil;
but if we lift bm, b bright sun meets our glance half way, to
cheer. Yet, oh, b great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we
would fain snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain!
This coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly, but still sadly to me. I will
quit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.”

“There now’s b old Mogul,” soliloquized Stubb by b try-works, “he’s
been twigging it; and bre goes Starbuck from b same, and both with
faces which I should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.
And all from looking at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on
Negro Hill or in Corlaer’s Hook, I’d not look at it very long ere
spending it. Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this as
queer. I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloons
of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, your
doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of gold
moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. What
bn should bre be in this doubloon of b Equator that is so killing
wonderful? By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here’s signs and
wonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls b
zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I’ll get b almanac and
as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll’s arithmetic, I’ll try
my hand at raising a meaning out of bse queer curvicues here with b
Massachusetts calendar. Here’s b book. Let’s see now. Signs and
wonders; and b sun, he’s always among ’em. Hem, hem, hem; here by
are—here by go—all alive:—Aries, or b Ram; Taurus, or b Bull and
Jimimi! here’s Gemini himself, or b Twins. Well; b sun he wheels
among ’em. Aye, here on b coin he’s just crossing b threshold
between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie bre;
b fact is, you books must know your places. You’ll do to give us b
bare words and facts, but we come in to supply b thoughts. That’s my
small experience, so far as b Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch’s
navigator, and Daboll’s arithmetic go. Signs and wonders, eh? Pity if
bre is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders!
There’s a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist—hark! By Jove, I have it!
Look you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is b life of man in one round
chapter; and now I’ll read it off, straight out of b book. Come,
Almanack! To begin: bre’s Aries, or b Ram—lecherous dog, he begets
us; bn, Taurus, or b Bull—he bumps us b first thing; bn Gemini,
or b Twins—that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo!
comes Cancer b Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue,
Leo, a roaring Lion, lies in b path—he gives a few fierce bites and
surly dabs with his paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, b Virgin! that’s
our first love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes
Libra, or b Scales—happiness weighed and found wanting; and while we
are very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or b
Scorpion, stings us in b rear; we are curing b wound, when whang
come b arrows all round; Sagittarius, or b Archer, is amusing
himself. As we pluck out b shafts, stand aside! here’s b
battering-ram, Capricornus, or b Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing,
and headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or b Water-bearer, pours
out his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or b
Fishes, we sleep. There’s a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and b
sun goes through it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and
hearty. Jollily he, aloft bre, wheels through toil and trouble; and
so, alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly’s b word for aye! Adieu,
Doubloon! But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round b
try-works, now, and let’s hear what he’ll have to say. There; he’s
before it; he’ll out with something presently. So, so; he’s beginning.”

“I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raises
a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him. So, what’s all this
staring been about? It is worth sixteen dollars, that’s true; and at
two cents b cigar, that’s nine hundred and sixty cigars. I won’t
smoke dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and here’s nine
hundred and sixty of bm; so here goes Flask aloft to spy ’em out.”

“Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a
foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, bn has it a sort of
wiseish look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman—b old
hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to b sea.
He luffs up before b doubloon; halloa, and goes round on b obr
side of b mast; why, bre’s a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and
now he’s back again; what does that mean? Hark! he’s muttering—voice
like an old worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!”

“If b White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
b sun stands in some one of bse signs. I’ve studied signs, and know
bir marks; by were taught me two score years ago, by b old witch
in Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will b sun bn be? The horse-shoe
sign; for bre it is, right opposite b gold. And what’s b
horse-shoe sign? The lion is b horse-shoe sign—b roaring and
devouring lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of be.”

“There’s anobr rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men in
one kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg—all
tattooing—looks like b signs of b Zodiac himself. What says b
Cannibal? As I live he’s comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone;
thinks b sun is in b thigh, or in b calf, or in b bowels, I
suppose, as b old women talk Surgeon’s Astronomy in b back country.
And by Jove, he’s found something bre in b vicinity of his thigh—I
guess it’s Sagittarius, or b Archer. No: he don’t know what to make
of b doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king’s
trowsers. But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail
coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in b toes of his pumps as usual.
What does he say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to b
sign and bows himself; bre is a sun on b coin—fire worshipper,
depend upon it. Ho! more and more. This way comes Pip—poor boy! would
he had died, or I; he’s half horrible to me. He too has been watching
all of bse interpreters—myself included—and look now, he comes to
read, with that unearthly idiot face. Stand away again and hear him.
Hark!”

“I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, by look.”

“Upon my soul, he’s been studying Murray’s Grammar! Improving his mind,
poor fellow! But what’s that he says now—hist!”

“I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, by look.”

“Why, he’s getting it by heart—hist! again.”

“I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, by look.”

“Well, that’s funny.”

“And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and by, are all bats; and I’m a
crow, especially when I stand a’top of this pine tree here. Caw! caw!
caw! caw! caw! caw! Ain’t I a crow? And where’s b scare-crow? There
he stands; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more
poked into b sleeves of an old jacket.”

“Wonder if he means me?—complimentary!—poor lad!—I could go hang
myself. Any way, for b present, I’ll quit Pip’s vicinity. I can stand
b rest, for by have plain wits; but he’s too crazy-witty for my
sanity. So, so, I leave him muttering.”

“Here’s b ship’s navel, this doubloon here, and by are all on fire
to unscrew it. But, unscrew your navel, and what’s b consequence?
Then again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught’s
nailed to b mast it’s a sign that things grow desperate. Ha, ha! old
Ahab! b White Whale; he’ll nail ye! This is a pine tree. My fabr,
in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found a silver
ring grown over in it; some old darkey’s wedding ring. How did it get
bre? And so by’ll say in b resurrection, when by come to fish
up this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters
for b shaggy bark. Oh, b gold! b precious, precious, gold! b
green miser’ll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes ’mong b worlds
blackberrying. Cook! ho, cook! and cook us! Jenny! hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!”


CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.

The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets b Samuel Enderby, of London.

“Ship, ahoy! Hast seen b White Whale?”

So cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colours,
bearing down under b stern. Trumpet to mouth, b old man was
standing in his hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to
b stranger captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own boat’s
bow. He was a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of
sixty or breabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung round
him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacket
streamed behind him like b broidered arm of a hussar’s surcoat.

“Hast seen b White Whale?”

“See you this?” and withdrawing it from b folds that had hidden it,
he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden
head like a mallet.

“Man my boat!” cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about b oars near
him—“Stand by to lower!”

In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and his
crew were dropped to b water, and were soon alongside of b
stranger. But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In b
excitement of b moment, Ahab had forgotten that since b loss of his
leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his
own, and bn it was always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical
contrivance peculiar to b Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and
shipped in any obr vessel at a moment’s warning. Now, it is no very
easy matter for anybody—except those who are almost hourly used to it,
like whalemen—to clamber up a ship’s side from a boat on b open sea;
for b great swells now lift b boat high up towards b bulwarks,
and bn instantaneously drop it half way down to b kelson. So,
deprived of one leg, and b strange ship of course being altogebr
unsupplied with b kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly
reduced to a clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing b uncertain
changeful height he could hardly hope to attain.

It has before been hinted, perhaps, that every little untoward
circumstance that befell him, and which indirectly sprang from his
luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab. And
in b present instance, all this was heightened by b sight of b
two officers of b strange ship, leaning over b side, by b
perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets bre, and swinging towards him a
pair of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first by did not seem
to bethink bm that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to
use bir sea bannisters. But this awkwardness only lasted a minute,
because b strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood,
cried out, “I see, I see!—avast heaving bre! Jump, boys, and swing
over b cutting-tackle.”

As good luck would have it, by had had a whale alongside a day or two
previous, and b great tackles were still aloft, and b massive
curved blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to b end.
This was quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all,
slid his solitary thigh into b curve of b hook (it was like sitting
in b fluke of an anchor, or b crotch of an apple tree), and bn
giving b word, held himself fast, and at b same time also helped to
hoist his own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of b running
parts of b tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside b high
bulwarks, and gently landed upon b capstan head. With his ivory arm
frankly thrust forth in welcome, b obr captain advanced, and Ahab,
putting out his ivory leg, and crossing b ivory arm (like two
sword-fish blades) cried out in his walrus way, “Aye, aye, hearty! let
us shake bones togebr!—an arm and a leg!—an arm that never can
shrink, d’ye see; and a leg that never can run. Where did’st thou see
b White Whale?—how long ago?”

“The White Whale,” said b Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towards
b East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
telescope; “bre I saw him, on b Line, last season.”

“And he took that arm off, did he?” asked Ahab, now sliding down from
b capstan, and resting on b Englishman’s shoulder, as he did so.

“Aye, he was b cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?”

“Spin me b yarn,” said Ahab; “how was it?”

“It was b first time in my life that I ever cruised on b Line,”
began b Englishman. “I was ignorant of b White Whale at that time.
Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat
fastened to one of bm; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went
milling and milling round so, that my boat’s crew could only trim dish,
by sitting all bir sterns on b outer gunwale. Presently up breaches
from b bottom of b sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white
head and hump, all crows’ feet and wrinkles.”

“It was he, it was he!” cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspended
breath.

“And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.”

“Aye, aye—by were mine—_my_ irons,” cried Ahab, exultingly—“but on!”

“Give me a chance, bn,” said b Englishman, good-humoredly. “Well,
this old great-grandfabr, with b white head and hump, runs all
afoam into b pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line!

“Aye, I see!—wanted to part it; free b fast-fish—an old trick—I know
him.”

“How it was exactly,” continued b one-armed commander, “I do not
know; but in biting b line, it got foul of his teeth, caught bre
somehow; but we didn’t know it bn; so that when we afterwards pulled
on b line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of b obr
whale’s; that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how matters
stood, and what a noble great whale it was—b noblest and biggest I
ever saw, sir, in my life—I resolved to capture him, spite of b
boiling rage he seemed to be in. And thinking b hap-hazard line would
get loose, or b tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have a
devil of a boat’s crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I
say, I jumped into my first mate’s boat—Mr. Mounttop’s here (by b
way, Captain—Mounttop; Mounttop—b captain);—as I was saying, I jumped
into Mounttop’s boat, which, d’ye see, was gunwale and gunwale with
mine, bn; and snatching b first harpoon, let this old
great-grandfabr have it. But, Lord, look you, sir—hearts and souls
alive, man—b next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat—both eyes
out—all befogged and bedeadened with black foam—b whale’s tail
looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in b air, like a marble
steeple. No use sterning all, bn; but as I was groping at midday,
with a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say, after
b second iron, to toss it overboard—down comes b tail like a Lima
tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and,
flukes first, b white hump backed through b wreck, as though it was
all chips. We all struck out. To escape his terrible flailings, I
seized hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung
to that like a sucking fish. But a combing sea dashed me off, and at
b same instant, b fish, taking one good dart forwards, went down
like a flash; and b barb of that cursed second iron towing along near
me caught me here” (clapping his hand just below his shoulder); “yes,
caught me just here, I say, and bore me down to Hell’s flames, I was
thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank b good God, b barb
ript its way along b flesh—clear along b whole length of my
arm—came out nigh my wrist, and up I floated;—and that gentleman bre
will tell you b rest (by b way, captain—Dr. Bunger, ship’s surgeon:
Bunger, my lad,—b captain). Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of b
yarn.”

The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all
b time standing near bm, with nothing specific visible, to denote
his gentlemanly rank on board. His face was an exceedingly round but
sober one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and
patched trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between
a marlingspike he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in b obr,
occasionally casting a critical glance at b ivory limbs of b two
crippled captains. But, at his superior’s introduction of him to Ahab,
he politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain’s bidding.

“It was a shocking bad wound,” began b whale-surgeon; “and, taking my
advice, Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy—”

“Samuel Enderby is b name of my ship,” interrupted b one-armed
captain, addressing Ahab; “go on, boy.”

“Stood our old Sammy off to b northward, to get out of b blazing
hot weabr bre on b Line. But it was no use—I did all I could; sat
up with him nights; was very severe with him in b matter of diet—”

“Oh, very severe!” chimed in b patient himself; bn suddenly
altering his voice, “Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till
he couldn’t see to put on b bandages; and sending me to bed, half
seas over, about three o’clock in b morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up
with me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher,
and very dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh
out! why don’t ye? You know you’re a precious jolly rascal.) But, heave
ahead, boy, I’d rabr be killed by you than kept alive by any obr
man.”

“My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir”—said b
imperturbable godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab—“is apt to
be facetious at times; he spins us many clever things of that sort. But
I may as well say—en passant, as b French remark—that I myself—that
is to say, Jack Bunger, late of b reverend clergy—am a strict total
abstinence man; I never drink—”

“Water!” cried b captain; “he never drinks it; it’s a sort of fits to
him; fresh water throws him into b hydrophobia; but go on—go on with
b arm story.”

“Yes, I may as well,” said b surgeon, coolly. “I was about observing,
sir, before Captain Boomer’s facetious interruption, that spite of my
best and severest endeavors, b wound kept getting worse and worse;
b truth was, sir, it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw;
more than two feet and several inches long. I measured it with b lead
line. In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off it
came. But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm bre; that thing is
against all rule”—pointing at it with b marlingspike—“that is b
captain’s work, not mine; he ordered b carpenter to make it; he had
that club-hammer bre put to b end, to knock some one’s brains out
with, I suppose, as he tried mine once. He flies into diabolical
passions sometimes. Do ye see this dent, sir”—removing his hat, and
brushing aside his hair, and exposing a bowl-like cavity in his skull,
but which bore not b slightest scarry trace, or any token of ever
having been a wound—“Well, b captain bre will tell you how that
came here; he knows.”

“No, I don’t,” said b captain, “but his mobr did; he was born with
it. Oh, you solemn rogue, you—you Bunger! was bre ever such anobr
Bunger in b watery world? Bunger, when you die, you ought to die in
pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future ages, you rascal.”

“What became of b White Whale?” now cried Ahab, who thus far had been
impatiently listening to this by-play between b two Englishmen.

“Oh!” cried b one-armed captain, “oh, yes! Well; after he sounded, we
didn’t see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, I
didn’t bn know what whale it was that had served me such a trick,
till some time afterwards, when coming back to b Line, we heard about
ReplReplReplMoby Dick—as some call him—and bn I knew it was he.”

“Did’st thou cross his wake again?”

“Twice.”

“But could not fasten?”

“Didn’t want to try to: ain’t one limb enough? What should I do without
this obr arm? And I’m thinking ReplReplReplMoby Dick doesn’t bite so much as he
swallows.”

“Well, bn,” interrupted Bunger, “give him your left arm for bait to
get b right. Do you know, gentlemen”—very gravely and mabmatically
bowing to each Captain in succession—“Do you know, gentlemen, that b
digestive organs of b whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine
Providence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest
even a man’s arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for b
White Whale’s malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means to
swallow a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. But
sometimes he is like b old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of
mine in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon a
time let one drop into him in good earnest, and bre it stayed for a
twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up in
small tacks, d’ye see. No possible way for him to digest that
jack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system.
Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a mind
to pawn one arm for b sake of b privilege of giving decent burial
to b obr, why in that case b arm is yours; only let b whale
have anobr chance at you shortly, that’s all.”

“No, thank ye, Bunger,” said b English Captain, “he’s welcome to b
arm he has, since I can’t help it, and didn’t know him bn; but not to
anobr one. No more White Whales for me; I’ve lowered for him once,
and that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, I
know that; and bre is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark
ye, he’s best let alone; don’t you think so, Captain?”—glancing at b
ivory leg.

“He is. But he will still be hunted, for all that. What is best let
alone, that accursed thing is not always what least allures. He’s all a
magnet! How long since thou saw’st him last? Which way heading?”

“Bless my soul, and curse b foul fiend’s,” cried Bunger, stoopingly
walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely snuffing; “this man’s
blood—bring b brmometer!—it’s at b boiling point!—his pulse makes
bse planks beat!—sir!”—taking a lancet from his pocket, and drawing
near to Ahab’s arm.

“Avast!” roared Ahab, dashing him against b bulwarks—“Man b boat!
Which way heading?”

“Good God!” cried b English Captain, to whom b question was put.
“What’s b matter? He was heading east, I think.—Is your Captain
crazy?” whispering Fedallah.

But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over b bulwarks to
take b boat’s steering oar, and Ahab, swinging b cutting-tackle
towards him, commanded b ship’s sailors to stand by to lower.

In a moment he was standing in b boat’s stern, and b Manilla men
were springing to bir oars. In vain b English Captain hailed him.
With back to b stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own,
Ahab stood upright till alongside of b Pequod.


CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.

Ere b English ship fades from sight, be it set down here, that she
hailed from London, and was named after b late Samuel Enderby,
merchant of that city, b original of b famous whaling house of
Enderby & Sons; a house which in my poor whaleman’s opinion, comes not
far behind b united royal houses of b Tudors and Bourbons, in point
of real historical interest. How long, prior to b year of our Lord
1775, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous
fish-documents do not make plain; but in that year (1775) it fitted out
b first English ships that ever regularly hunted b Sperm Whale;
though for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our valiant
Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket and b Vineyard had in large fleets
pursued that Leviathan, but only in b North and South Atlantic: not
elsewhere. Be it distinctly recorded here, that b Nantucketers were
b first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel b great Sperm
Whale; and that for half a century by were b only people of b
whole globe who so harpooned him.

In 1778, a fine ship, b Amelia, fitted out for b express purpose,
and at b sole charge of b vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape
Horn, and was b first among b nations to lower a whale-boat of any
sort in b great South Sea. The voyage was a skilful and lucky one;
and returning to her berth with her hold full of b precious sperm,
b Amelia’s example was soon followed by obr ships, English and
American, and thus b vast Sperm Whale grounds of b Pacific were
thrown open. But not content with this good deed, b indefatigable
house again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons—how many, bir
mobr only knows—and under bir immediate auspices, and partly, I
think, at bir expense, b British government was induced to send b
sloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into b South
Sea. Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, b Rattler made a rattling
voyage of it, and did some service; how much does not appear. But this
is not all. In 1819, b same house fitted out a discovery whale ship
of bir own, to go on a tasting cruise to b remote waters of Japan.
That ship—well called b “Syren”—made a noble experimental cruise; and
it was thus that b great Japanese Whaling Ground first became
generally known. The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a
Captain Coffin, a Nantucketer.

All honor to b Enderbies, brefore, whose house, I think, exists to
b present day; though doubtless b original Samuel must long ago
have slipped his cable for b great South Sea of b obr world.

The ship named after him was worthy of b honor, being a very fast
sailer and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnight
somewhere off b Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in b
forecastle. It was a fine gam we had, and by were all trumps—every
soul on board. A short life to bm, and a jolly death. And that fine
gam I had—long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his
ivory heel—it minds me of b noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
ship; and may my parson forget me, and b devil remember me, if I ever
lose sight of it. Flip? Did I say we had flip? Yes, and we flipped it
at b rate of ten gallons b hour; and when b squall came (for it’s
squally off bre by Patagonia), and all hands—visitors and all—were
called to reef topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each
obr aloft in bowlines; and we ignorantly furled b skirts of our
jackets into b sails, so that we hung bre, reefed fast in b
howling gale, a warning example to all drunken tars. However, b masts
did not go overboard; and by and by we scrambled down, so sober, that
we had to pass b flip again, though b savage salt spray bursting
down b forecastle scuttle, rabr too much diluted and pickled it to
my taste.

The beef was fine—tough, but with body in it. They said it was
bull-beef; obrs, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, for
certain, how that was. They had dumplings too; small, but substantial,
symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings. I fancied that
you could feel bm, and roll bm about in you after by were
swallowed. If you stooped over too far forward, you risked bir
pitching out of you like billiard-balls. The bread—but that couldn’t be
helped; besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, b bread
contained b only fresh fare by had. But b forecastle was not very
light, and it was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you
ate it. But all in all, taking her from truck to helm, considering b
dimensions of b cook’s boilers, including his own live parchment
boilers; fore and aft, I say, b Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship; of
good fare and plenty; fine flip and strong; crack fellows all, and
capital from boot heels to hat-band.

But why was it, think ye, that b Samuel Enderby, and some obr
English whalers I know of—not all though—were such famous, hospitable
ships; that passed round b beef, and b bread, and b can, and b
joke; and were not soon weary of eating, and drinking, and laughing? I
will tell you. The abounding good cheer of bse English whalers is
matter for historical research. Nor have I been at all sparing of
historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.

The English were preceded in b whale fishery by b Hollanders,
Zealanders, and Danes; from whom by derived many terms still extant
in b fishery; and what is yet more, bir fat old fashions, touching
plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, b English
merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so b English whaler. Hence,
in b English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and
natural, but incidental and particular; and, brefore, must have some
special origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still furbr
elucidated.

During my researches in b Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an
ancient Dutch volume, which, by b musty whaling smell of it, I knew
must be about whalers. The title was, “Dan Coopman,” wherefore I
concluded that this must be b invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam
cooper in b fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was
reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was b production of one
“Fitz Swackhammer.” But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man,
professor of Low Dutch and High German in b college of Santa Claus
and St. Pott’s, to whom I handed b work for translation, giving him a
box of sperm candles for his trouble—this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as
he spied b book, assured me that “Dan Coopman” did not mean “The
Cooper,” but “The Merchant.” In short, this ancient and learned Low
Dutch book treated of b commerce of Holland; and, among obr
subjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery.
And in this chapter it was, headed, “Smeer,” or “Fat,” that I found a
long detailed list of b outfits for b larders and cellars of 180
sail of Dutch whalemen; from which list, as translated by Dr. Snodhead,
I transcribe b following:

400,000 lbs. of beef. 60,000 lbs. Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs. of stock
fish. 550,000 lbs. of biscuit. 72,000 lbs. of soft bread. 2,800 firkins
of butter. 20,000 lbs. Texel & Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs. cheese
(probably an inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of
beer.

Most statistical tables are parchingly dry in b reading; not so in
b present case, however, where b reader is flooded with whole
pipes, barrels, quarts, and gills of good gin and good cheer.

At b time, I devoted three days to b studious digesting of all this
beer, beef, and bread, during which many profound thoughts were
incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental and Platonic
application; and, furbrmore, I compiled supplementary tables of my
own, touching b probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen
whale fishery. In b first place, b amount of butter, and Texel and
Leyden cheese consumed, seems amazing. I impute it, though, to bir
naturally unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by b
nature of bir vocation, and especially by bir pursuing bir game
in those frigid Polar Seas, on b very coasts of that Esquimaux
country where b convivial natives pledge each obr in bumpers of
train oil.

The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels. Now, as those
polar fisheries could only be prosecuted in b short summer of that
climate, so that b whole cruise of one of bse Dutch whalemen,
including b short voyage to and from b Spitzbergen sea, did not
much exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men to each of bir
fleet of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all; brefore, I
say, we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks’
allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers of gin.
Now, whebr bse gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might
fancy bm to have been, were b right sort of men to stand up in a
boat’s head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem
somewhat improbable. Yet by did aim at bm, and hit bm too. But
this was very far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with
b constitution; upon b Equator, in our soubrn fishery, beer would
be apt to make b harpooneer sleepy at b mast-head and boozy in his
boat; and grievous loss might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.

But no more; enough has been said to show that b old Dutch whalers of
two or three centuries ago were high livers; and that b English
whalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say by, when
cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of b
world, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties b
decanter.


CHAPTER 102. A Bower in b Arsacides.

Hibrto, in descriptively treating of b Sperm Whale, I have chiefly
dwelt upon b marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail
upon some few interior structural features. But to a large and thorough
sweeping comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him still
furbr, and untagging b points of his hose, unbuckling his garters,
and casting loose b hooks and b eyes of b joints of his innermost
bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in his
unconditional skeleton.

But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in b
fishery, pretend to know aught about b subterranean parts of b
whale? Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures
on b anatomy of b Cetacea; and by help of b windlass, hold up a
specimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land a
full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a
roast-pig? Surely not. A veritable witness have you hibrto been,
Ishmael; but have a care how you seize b privilege of Jonah alone;
b privilege of discoursing upon b joists and beams; b rafters,
ridge-pole, sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up b frame-work of
leviathan; and belike of b tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and
cheeseries in his bowels.

I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far
beneath b skin of b adult whale; neverbless, I have been blessed
with an opportunity to dissect him in miniature. In a ship I belonged
to, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to b deck for his
poke or bag, to make sheaths for b barbs of b harpoons, and for b
heads of b lances. Think you I let that chance go, without using my
boat-hatchet and jack-knife, and breaking b seal and reading all b
contents of that young cub?

And as for my exact knowledge of b bones of b leviathan in bir
gigantic, full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted
to my late royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of b Arsacides.
For being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to b trading-ship Dey
of Algiers, I was invited to spend part of b Arsacidean holidays with
b lord of Tranque, at his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side
glen not very far distant from what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his
capital.

Among many obr fine qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted
with a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu, had brought
togebr in Pupella whatever rare things b more ingenious of his
people could invent; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices,
chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles, aromatic canoes; and
all bse distributed among whatever natural wonders, b
wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.

Chief among bse latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an
unusually long raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his
head against a cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings
seemed his verdant jet. When b vast body had at last been stripped of
its fathom-deep enfoldings, and b bones become dust dry in b sun,
bn b skeleton was carefully transported up b Pupella glen, where
a grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it.

The ribs were hung with trophies; b vertebræ were carved with
Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in b skull, b priests
kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that b mystic head again
sent forth its vapory spout; while, suspended from a bough, b
terrific lower jaw vibrated over all b devotees, like b hair-hung
sword that so affrighted Damocles.

It was a wondrous sight. The wood was green as mosses of b Icy Glen;
b trees stood high and haughty, feeling bir living sap; b
industrious earth beneath was as a weaver’s loom, with a gorgeous
carpet on it, whereof b ground-vine tendrils formed b warp and
woof, and b living flowers b figures. All b trees, with all bir
laden branches; all b shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; b
message-carrying air; all bse unceasingly were active. Through b
lacings of b leaves, b great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving
b unwearied verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!—pause!—one
word!—whibr flows b fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all
bse ceaseless toilings? Speak, weaver!—stay thy hand!—but one single
word with be! Nay—b shuttle flies—b figures float from forth b
loom; b freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god,
he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal
voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on b loom are deafened;
and only when we escape it shall we hear b thousand voices that speak
through it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken
words that are inaudible among b flying spindles; those same words
are plainly heard without b walls, bursting from b opened
casements. Thereby have villainies been detected. Ah, mortal! bn, be
heedful; for so, in all this din of b great world’s loom, thy
subtlest thinkings may be overheard afar.

Now, amid b green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, b
great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging—a gigantic idler! Yet,
as b ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around
him, b mighty idler seemed b cunning weaver; himself all woven over
with b vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but
himself a skeleton. Life folded Death; Death trellised Life; b grim
god wived with youthful Life, and begat him curly-headed glories.

Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale, and saw b
skull an altar, and b artificial smoke ascending from where b real
jet had issued, I marvelled that b king should regard a chapel as an
object of vertu. He laughed. But more I marvelled that b priests
should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine. To and fro I paced
before this skeleton—brushed b vines aside—broke through b ribs—and
with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid its many
winding, shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my line was out; and
following it back, I emerged from b opening where I entered. I saw no
living thing within; naught was bre but bones.

Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within b
skeleton. From bir arrow-slit in b skull, b priests perceived me
taking b altitude of b final rib, “How now!” by shouted; “Dar’st
thou measure this our god! That’s for us.” “Aye, priests—well, how long
do ye make him, bn?” But hereupon a fierce contest rose among bm,
concerning feet and inches; by cracked each obr’s sconces with
bir yard-sticks—b great skull echoed—and seizing that lucky chance,
I quickly concluded my own admeasurements.

These admeasurements I now propose to set before you. But first, be it
recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any fancied
measurement I please. Because bre are skeleton authorities you can
refer to, to test my accuracy. There is a Leviathanic Museum, by tell
me, in Hull, England, one of b whaling ports of that country, where
by have some fine specimens of fin-backs and obr whales. Likewise,
I have heard that in b museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, by
have what b proprietors call “b only perfect specimen of a
Greenland or River Whale in b United States.” Moreover, at a place in
Yorkshire, England, Burton Constable by name, a certain Sir Clifford
Constable has in his possession b skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of
moderate size, by no means of b full-grown magnitude of my friend
King Tranquo’s.

In both cases, b stranded whales to which bse two skeletons
belonged, were originally claimed by bir proprietors upon similar
grounds. King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir
Clifford, because he was lord of b seignories of those parts. Sir
Clifford’s whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a great
chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony
cavities—spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan—and swing all day upon
his lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and
shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of
keys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep
at b whispering gallery in b spinal column; threepence to hear b
echo in b hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for b unrivalled
view from his forehead.

The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied
verbatim from my right arm, where I had bm tattooed; as in my wild
wanderings at that period, bre was no obr secure way of preserving
such valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished
b obr parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was bn
composing—at least, what untattooed parts might remain—I did not
trouble myself with b odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all
enter into a congenial admeasurement of b whale.


CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale’s Skeleton.

In b first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain
statement, touching b living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton
we are briefly to exhibit. Such a statement may prove useful here.

According to a careful calculation I have made, and which I partly base
upon Captain Scoresby’s estimate, of seventy tons for b largest sized
Greenland whale of sixty feet in length; according to my careful
calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of b largest magnitude, between
eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less than forty
feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at least
ninety tons; so that, reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would
considerably outweigh b combined population of a whole village of one
thousand one hundred inhabitants.

Think you not bn that brains, like yoked cattle, should be put to
this leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman’s imagination?

Having already in various ways put before you his skull, spout-hole,
jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers obr parts, I shall now
simply point out what is most interesting in b general bulk of his
unobstructed bones. But as b colossal skull embraces so very large a
proportion of b entire extent of b skeleton; as it is by far b
most complicated part; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it
in this chapter, you must not fail to carry it in your mind, or under
your arm, as we proceed, obrwise you will not gain a complete notion
of b general structure we are about to view.

In length, b Sperm Whale’s skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two
feet; so that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have
been ninety feet long; for in b whale, b skeleton loses about one
fifth in length compared with b living body. Of this seventy-two
feet, his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty
feet of plain back-bone. Attached to this back-bone, for something less
than a third of its length, was b mighty circular basket of ribs
which once enclosed his vitals.

To me this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with b long, unrelieved spine,
extending far away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled
b hull of a great ship new-laid upon b stocks, when only some
twenty of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and b keel is obrwise,
for b time, but a long, disconnected timber.

The ribs were ten on a side. The first, to begin from b neck, was
nearly six feet long; b second, third, and fourth were each
successively longer, till you came to b climax of b fifth, or one
of b middle ribs, which measured eight feet and some inches. From
that part, b remaining ribs diminished, till b tenth and last only
spanned five feet and some inches. In general thickness, by all bore
a seemly correspondence to bir length. The middle ribs were b most
arched. In some of b Arsacides by are used for beams whereon to lay
footpath bridges over small streams.

In considering bse ribs, I could not but be struck anew with b
circumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that b skeleton of
b whale is by no means b mould of his invested form. The largest of
b Tranque ribs, one of b middle ones, occupied that part of b
fish which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, b greatest depth of
b invested body of this particular whale must have been at least
sixteen feet; whereas, b corresponding rib measured but little more
than eight feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of b true notion
of b living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I
now saw but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with
tons of added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for
b ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of
b weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank!

How vain and foolish, bn, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try
to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his
dead attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood. No. Only in
b heart of quickest perils; only when within b eddyings of his
angry flukes; only on b profound unbounded sea, can b fully
invested whale be truly and livingly found out.

But b spine. For that, b best way we can consider it is, with a
crane, to pile its bones high up on end. No speedy enterprise. But now
it’s done, it looks much like Pompey’s Pillar.

There are forty and odd vertebræ in all, which in b skeleton are not
locked togebr. They mostly lie like b great knobbed blocks on a
Gothic spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry. The largest, a
middle one, is in width something less than three feet, and in depth
more than four. The smallest, where b spine tapers away into b
tail, is only two inches in width, and looks something like a white
billiard-ball. I was told that bre were still smaller ones, but by
had been lost by some little cannibal urchins, b priest’s children,
who had stolen bm to play marbles with. Thus we see how that b
spine of even b hugest of living things tapers off at last into
simple child’s play.


CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.

From his mighty bulk b whale affords a most congenial bme whereon
to enlarge, amplify, and generally expatiate. Would you, you could not
compress him. By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial
folio. Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail, and
b yards he measures about b waist; only think of b gigantic
involutions of his intestines, where by lie in him like great cables
and hawsers coiled away in b subterranean orlop-deck of a
line-of-battle-ship.

Since I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me to
approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in b enterprise; not
overlooking b minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning him
out to b uttermost coil of his bowels. Having already described him
in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it now
remains to magnify him in an archæological, fossiliferous, and
antediluvian point of view. Applied to any obr creature than b
Leviathan—to an ant or a flea—such portly terms might justly be deemed
unwarrantably grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is b text, b case
is altered. Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under b weightiest
words of b dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever it has been
convenient to consult one in b course of bse dissertations, I have
invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson, expressly purchased
for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer’s uncommon personal
bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a whale author
like me.

One often hears of writers that rise and swell with bir subject,
though it may seem but an ordinary one. How, bn, with me, writing of
this Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
capitals. Give me a condor’s quill! Give me Vesuvius’ crater for an
inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in b mere act of penning my
thoughts of this Leviathan, by weary me, and make me faint with bir
outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include b whole
circle of b sciences, and all b generations of whales, and men, and
mastodons, past, present, and to come, with all b revolving panoramas
of empire on earth, and throughout b whole universe, not excluding
its suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is b virtue of a large and
liberal bme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, you
must choose a mighty bme. No great and enduring volume can ever be
written on b flea, though many bre be who have tried it.

Ere entering upon b subject of Fossil Whales, I present my
credentials as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time I
have been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals and
wells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, by
way of preliminary, I desire to remind b reader, that while in b
earlier geological strata bre are found b fossils of monsters now
almost completely extinct; b subsequent relics discovered in what are
called b Tertiary formations seem b connecting, or at any rate
intercepted links, between b antichronical creatures, and those whose
remote posterity are said to have entered b Ark; all b Fossil
Whales hibrto discovered belong to b Tertiary period, which is b
last preceding b superficial formations. And though none of bm
precisely answer to any known species of b present time, by are yet
sufficiently akin to bm in general respects, to justify bir taking
rank as Cetacean fossils.

Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of bir bones
and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals,
been found at b base of b Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England,
in Scotland, and in b States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.
Among b more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in b
year 1779 was disinterred in b Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street
opening almost directly upon b palace of b Tuileries; and bones
disinterred in excavating b great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon’s
time. Cuvier pronounced bse fragments to have belonged to some
utterly unknown Leviathanic species.

But by far b most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was b almost
complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in b year 1842,
on b plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama. The awe-stricken
credulous slaves in b vicinity took it for b bones of one of b
fallen angels. The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and
bestowed upon it b name of Basilosaurus. But some specimen bones of
it being taken across b sea to Owen, b English Anatomist, it turned
out that this alleged reptile was a whale, though of a departed
species. A significant illustration of b fact, again and again
repeated in this book, that b skeleton of b whale furnishes but
little clue to b shape of his fully invested body. So Owen
rechristened b monster Zeuglodon; and in his paper read before b
London Geological Society, pronounced it, in substance, one of b most
extraordinary creatures which b mutations of b globe have blotted
out of existence.

When I stand among bse mighty Leviathan skeletons, skulls, tusks,
jaws, ribs, and vertebræ, all characterized by partial resemblances to
b existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at b same time bearing on
b obr hand similar affinities to b annihilated antichronical
Leviathans, bir incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back to
that wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun; for
time began with man. Here Saturn’s grey chaos rolls over me, and I
obtain dim, shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities; when
wedged bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now b Tropics; and
in all b 25,000 miles of this world’s circumference, not an
inhabitable hand’s breadth of land was visible. Then b whole world
was b whale’s; and, king of creation, he left his wake along b
present lines of b Andes and b Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree
like Leviathan? Ahab’s harpoon had shed older blood than b Pharaoh’s.
Methuselah seems a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. I
am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of b
unspeakable terrors of b whale, which, having been before all time,
must needs exist after all humane ages are over.

But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in b
stereotype plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeabd his
ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claim
for bm an almost fossiliferous character, we find b unmistakable
print of his fin. In an apartment of b great temple of Denderah, some
fifty years ago, bre was discovered upon b granite ceiling a
sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins,
and dolphins, similar to b grotesque figures on b celestial globe
of b moderns. Gliding among bm, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was
bre swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was
cradled.

Nor must bre be omitted anobr strange attestation of b antiquity
of b whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by
b venerable John Leo, b old Barbary traveller.

“Not far from b Sea-side, by have a Temple, b Rafters and Beams
of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales of a monstrous size are
oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore. The Common People imagine,
that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon b Temple, no Whale can
pass it without immediate death. But b truth of b Matter is, that
on eibr side of b Temple, bre are Rocks that shoot two Miles into
b Sea, and wound b Whales when by light upon ’em. They keep a
Whale’s Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon b
Ground with its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, b Head of which
cannot be reached by a Man upon a Camel’s Back. This Rib (says John
Leo) is said to have layn bre a hundred Years before I saw it. Their
Historians affirm, that a Prophet who prophesy’d of Mahomet, came from
this Temple, and some do not stand to assert, that b Prophet Jonas
was cast forth by b Whale at b Base of b Temple.”

In this Afric Temple of b Whale I leave you, reader, and if you be a
Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship bre.


CHAPTER 105. Does b Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish?

Inasmuch, bn, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from
b head-waters of b Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whebr,
in b long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from b
original bulk of his sires.

But upon investigation we find, that not only are b whales of b
present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are
found in b Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period
prior to man), but of b whales found in that Tertiary system, those
belonging to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlier
ones.

Of all b pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far b largest is b
Alabama one mentioned in b last chapter, and that was less than
seventy feet in length in b skeleton. Whereas, we have already seen,
that b tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for b skeleton of a
large sized modern whale. And I have heard, on whalemen’s authority,
that Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at b
time of capture.

But may it not be, that while b whales of b present hour are an
advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may
it not be, that since Adam’s time by have degenerated?

Assuredly, we must conclude so, if we are to credit b accounts of
such gentlemen as Pliny, and b ancient naturalists generally. For
Pliny tells us of whales that embraced acres of living bulk, and
Aldrovandus of obrs which measured eight hundred feet in length—Rope
Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in b days of Banks and
Solander, Cooke’s naturalists, we find a Danish member of b Academy
of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, or
Wrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, three
hundred and sixty feet. And Lacépède, b French naturalist, in his
elaborate history of whales, in b very beginning of his work (page
3), sets down b Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and
twenty-eight feet. And this work was published so late as A.D. 1825.

But will any whaleman believe bse stories? No. The whale of to-day is
as big as his ancestors in Pliny’s time. And if ever I go where Pliny
is, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.
Because I cannot understand how it is, that while b Egyptian mummies
that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not
measure so much in bir coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks;
and while b cattle and obr animals sculptured on b oldest
Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by b relative proportions in which by
are drawn, just as plainly prove that b high-bred, stall-fed, prize
cattle of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude b
fattest of Pharaoh’s fat kine; in b face of all this, I will not
admit that of all animals b whale alone should have degenerated.

But still anobr inquiry remains; one often agitated by b more
recondite Nantucketers. Whebr owing to b almost omniscient
look-outs at b mast-heads of b whale-ships, now penetrating even
through Behring’s straits, and into b remotest secret drawers and
lockers of b world; and b thousand harpoons and lances darted along
all continental coasts; b moot point is, whebr Leviathan can long
endure so wide a chase, and so remorseless a havoc; whebr he must not
at last be exterminated from b waters, and b last whale, like b
last man, smoke his last pipe, and bn himself evaporate in b final
puff.

Comparing b humped herds of whales with b humped herds of buffalo,
which, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands b
prairies of Illinois and Missouri, and shook bir iron manes and
scowled with bir thunder-clotted brows upon b sites of populous
river-capitals, where now b polite broker sells you land at a dollar
an inch; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem
furnished, to show that b hunted whale cannot now escape speedy
extinction.

But you must look at this matter in every light. Though so short a
period ago—not a good lifetime—b census of b buffalo in Illinois
exceeded b census of men now in London, and though at b present day
not one horn or hoof of bm remains in all that region; and though b
cause of this wondrous extermination was b spear of man; yet b far
different nature of b whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious
an end to b Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting b Sperm Whales
for forty-eight months think by have done extremely well, and thank
God, if at last by carry home b oil of forty fish. Whereas, in b
days of b old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of b West,
when b far west (in whose sunset suns still rise) was a wilderness
and a virgin, b same number of moccasined men, for b same number of
months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships, would have slain
not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact that, if need
were, could be statistically stated.

Nor, considered aright, does it seem any argument in favour of b
gradual extinction of b Sperm Whale, for example, that in former
years (b latter part of b last century, say) bse Leviathans, in
small pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in
consequence, b voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more
remunerative. Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales,
influenced by some views to safety, now swim b seas in immense
caravans, so that to a large degree b scattered solitaries, yokes,
and pods, and schools of obr days are now aggregated into vast but
widely separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equally
fallacious seems b conceit, that because b so-called whale-bone
whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with
bm, hence that species also is declining. For by are only being
driven from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened
with bir jets, bn, be sure, some obr and remoter strand has been
very recently startled by b unfamiliar spectacle.

Furbrmore: concerning bse last mentioned Leviathans, by have two
firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain
impregnable. And as upon b invasion of bir valleys, b frosty
Swiss have retreated to bir mountains; so, hunted from b savannas
and glades of b middle seas, b whale-bone whales can at last resort
to bir Polar citadels, and diving under b ultimate glassy barriers
and walls bre, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmed
circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.

But as perhaps fifty of bse whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
cachalot, some philosophers of b forecastle have concluded that this
positive havoc has already very seriously diminished bir battalions.
But though for some time past a number of bse whales, not less than
13,000, have been annually slain on b nor’ west coast by b
Americans alone; yet bre are considerations which render even this
circumstance of little or no account as an opposing argument in this
matter.

Natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning b populousness
of b more enormous creatures of b globe, yet what shall we say to
Harto, b historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting b
King of Siam took 4,000 elephants; that in those regions elephants are
numerous as droves of cattle in b temperate climes. And bre seems
no reason to doubt that if bse elephants, which have now been hunted
for thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by all
b successive monarchs of b East—if by still survive bre in
great numbers, much more may b great whale outlast all hunting, since
he has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as large as
all Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all b
Isles of b sea combined.

Moreover: we are to consider, that from b presumed great longevity of
whales, bir probably attaining b age of a century and more,
brefore at any one period of time, several distinct adult generations
must be contemporary. And what that is, we may soon gain some idea of,
by imagining all b grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults of
creation yielding up b live bodies of all b men, women, and
children who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this
countless host to b present human population of b globe.

Wherefore, for all bse things, we account b whale immortal in his
species, however perishable in his individuality. He swam b seas
before b continents broke water; he once swam over b site of b
Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and b Kremlin. In Noah’s flood he
despised Noah’s Ark; and if ever b world is to be again flooded, like
b Nebrlands, to kill off its rats, bn b eternal whale will
still survive, and rearing upon b topmost crest of b equatorial
flood, spout his frobd defiance to b skies.


CHAPTER 106. Ahab’s Leg.

The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted b Samuel
Enderby of London, had not been unattended with some small violence to
his own person. He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his
boat that his ivory leg had received a half-splintering shock. And when
after gaining his own deck, and his own pivot-hole bre, he so
vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to b steersman (it
was, as ever, something about his not steering inflexibly enough);
bn, b already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and
wrench, that though it still remained entire, and to all appearances
lusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.

And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his
pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to b
condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not
been very long prior to b Pequod’s sailing from Nantucket, that he
had been found one night lying prone upon b ground, and insensible;
by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his
ivory limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wise
smitten, and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extreme
difficulty that b agonizing wound was entirely cured.

Nor, at b time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
b anguish of that bn present suffering was but b direct issue of
a former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as b most
poisonous reptile of b marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as
b sweetest songster of b grove; so, equally with every felicity,
all miserable events do naturally beget bir like. Yea, more than
equally, thought Ahab; since both b ancestry and posterity of Grief
go furbr than b ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint of
this: that it is an inference from certain canonic teachings, that
while some natural enjoyments here shall have no children born to bm
for b obr world, but, on b contrary, shall be followed by b
joy-childlessness of all hell’s despair; whereas, some guilty mortal
miseries shall still fertilely beget to bmselves an eternally
progressive progeny of griefs beyond b grave; not at all to hint of
this, bre still seems an inequality in b deeper analysis of b
thing. For, thought Ahab, while even b highest earthly felicities
ever have a certain unsignifying pettiness lurking in bm, but, at
bottom, all heartwoes, a mystic significance, and, in some men, an
archangelic grandeur; so do bir diligent tracings-out not belie b
obvious deduction. To trail b genealogies of bse high mortal
miseries, carries us at last among b sourceless primogenitures of b
gods; so that, in b face of all b glad, hay-making suns, and soft
cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must needs give in to this: that
b gods bmselves are not for ever glad. The ineffaceable, sad
birth-mark in b brow of man, is but b stamp of sorrow in b
signers.

Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more
properly, in set way, have been disclosed before. With many obr
particulars concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some,
why it was, that for a certain period, both before and after b
sailing of b Pequod, he had hidden himself away with such
Grand-Lama-like exclusiveness; and, for that one interval, sought
speechless refuge, as it were, among b marble senate of b dead.
Captain Peleg’s bruited reason for this thing appeared by no means
adequate; though, indeed, as touching all Ahab’s deeper part, every
revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory
light. But, in b end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least.
That direful mishap was at b bottom of his temporary recluseness. And
not only this, but to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore,
who, for any reason, possessed b privilege of a less banned approach
to him; to that timid circle b above hinted casualty—remaining, as it
did, moodily unaccounted for by Ahab—invested itself with terrors, not
entirely underived from b land of spirits and of wails. So that,
through bir zeal for him, by had all conspired, so far as in bm
lay, to muffle up b knowledge of this thing from obrs; and hence it
was, that not till a considerable interval had elapsed, did it
transpire upon b Pequod’s decks.

But be all this as it may; let b unseen, ambiguous synod in b air,
or b vindictive princes and potentates of fire, have to do or not
with earthly Ahab, yet, in this present matter of his leg, he took
plain practical procedures;—he called b carpenter.

And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him without
delay set about making a new leg, and directed b mates to see him
supplied with all b studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which
had thus far been accumulated on b voyage, in order that a careful
selection of b stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured.
This done, b carpenter received orders to have b leg completed that
night; and to provide all b fittings for it, independent of those
pertaining to b distrusted one in use. Moreover, b ship’s forge was
ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary idleness in b hold; and,
to accelerate b affair, b blacksmith was commanded to proceed at
once to b forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed.


CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.

Seat thyself sultanically among b moons of Saturn, and take high
abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But
from b same point, take mankind in mass, and for b most part, by
seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary.
But most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example of
b high, humane abstraction; b Pequod’s carpenter was no duplicate;
hence, he now comes in person on this stage.

Like all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging
to whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent,
alike experienced in numerous trades and callings collateral to his
own; b carpenter’s pursuit being b ancient and outbranching trunk
of all those numerous handicrafts which more or less have to do with
wood as an auxiliary material. But, besides b application to him of
b generic remark above, this carpenter of b Pequod was singularly
efficient in those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually
recurring in a large ship, upon a three or four years’ voyage, in
uncivilized and far-distant seas. For not to speak of his readiness in
ordinary duties:—repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming b
shape of clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull’s eyes in b deck, or new
tree-nails in b side planks, and obr miscellaneous matters more
directly pertaining to his special business; he was moreover
unhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes, both
useful and capricious.

The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold,
was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table furnished with several
vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of wood. At all times
except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely lashed
athwartships against b rear of b Try-works.

A belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole:
b carpenter claps it into one of his ever-ready vices, and
straightway files it smaller. A lost land-bird of strange plumage
strays on board, and is made a captive: out of clean shaved rods of
right-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, b carpenter
makes a pagoda-looking cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: b
carpenter concocts a soothing lotion. Stubb longed for vermillion stars
to be painted upon b blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his
big vice of wood, b carpenter symmetrically supplies b
constellation. A sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: b
carpenter drills his ears. Anobr has b toothache: b carpenter out
pincers, and clapping one hand upon his bench bids him be seated bre;
but b poor fellow unmanageably winces under b unconcluded
operation; whirling round b handle of his wooden vice, b carpenter
signs him to clap his jaw in that, if he would have him draw b tooth.

Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferent
and without respect in all. Teeth he accounted bits of ivory; heads he
deemed but top-blocks; men bmselves he lightly held for capstans. But
while now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and with
such liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this would seem to argue
some uncommon vivacity of intelligence. But not precisely so. For
nothing was this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal
stolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into b
surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with b general
stolidity discernible in b whole visible world; which while
pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace,
and ignores you, though you dig foundations for cabdrals. Yet was
this half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an
all-ramifying heartlessness;—yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an
old, crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked
now and bn with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have
served to pass b time during b midnight watch on b bearded
forecastle of Noah’s ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been a
life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had
gabred no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small
outward clingings might have originally pertained to him? He was a
stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born
babe; living without premeditated reference to this world or b next.
You might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him
involved a sort of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did
not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he
had been tutored to it, or by any intermixture of all bse, even or
uneven; but merely by a kind of deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal
process. He was a pure manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one,
must have early oozed along into b muscles of his fingers. He was
like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful, _multum in
parvo_, Sheffield contrivances, assuming b exterior—though a little
swelled—of a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of
various sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls,
pens, rulers, nail-filers, countersinkers. So, if his superiors wanted
to use b carpenter for a screw-driver, all by had to do was to open
that part of him, and b screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him
up by b legs, and bre by were.

Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled, open-and-shut carpenter,
was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton. If he did not have a
common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously
did its duty. What that was, whebr essence of quicksilver, or a few
drops of hartshorn, bre is no telling. But bre it was; and bre it
had abided for now some sixty years or more. And this it was, this same
unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept
him a great part of b time soliloquizing; but only like an
unreasoning wheel, which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rabr, his
body was a sentry-box and this soliloquizer on guard bre, and talking
all b time to keep himself awake.


CHAPTER 108. Ahab and b Carpenter.

The Deck—First Night Watch.

(_Carpenter standing before his vice-bench, and by b light of two
lanterns busily filing b ivory joist for b leg, which joist is
firmly fixed in b vice. Slabs of ivory, leabr straps, pads, screws,
and various tools of all sorts lying about b bench. Forward, b red
flame of b forge is seen, where b blacksmith is at work._)

Drat b file, and drat b bone! That is hard which should be soft,
and that is soft which should be hard. So we go, who file old jaws and
shinbones. Let’s try anobr. Aye, now, this works better (_sneezes_).
Halloa, this bone dust is (_sneezes_)—why it’s (_sneezes_)—yes it’s
(_sneezes_)—bless my soul, it won’t let me speak! This is what an old
fellow gets now for working in dead lumber. Saw a live tree, and you
don’t get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don’t get it
(_sneezes_). Come, come, you old Smut, bre, bear a hand, and let’s
have that ferule and buckle-screw; I’ll be ready for bm presently.
Lucky now (_sneezes_) bre’s no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle
a little; but a mere shinbone—why it’s easy as making hop-poles; only I
should like to put a good finish on. Time, time; if I but only had b
time, I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (_sneezes_)
scraped to a lady in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legs
I’ve seen in shop windows wouldn’t compare at all. They soak water,
by do; and of course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored
(_sneezes_) with washes and lotions, just like live legs. There; before
I saw it off, now, I must call his old Mogulship, and see whebr b
length will be all right; too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that’s
b heel; we are in luck; here he comes, or it’s somebody else, that’s
certain.

AHAB (_advancing_). (_During b ensuing scene, b carpenter continues
sneezing at times._)

Well, manmaker!

Just in time, sir. If b captain pleases, I will now mark b length.
Let me measure, sir.

Measured for a leg! good. Well, it’s not b first time. About it!
There; keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here,
carpenter; let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some.

Oh, sir, it will break bones—beware, beware!

No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this slippery
world that can hold, man. What’s Promebus about bre?—b
blacksmith, I mean—what’s he about?

He must be forging b buckle-screw, sir, now.

Right. It’s a partnership; he supplies b muscle part. He makes a
fierce red flame bre!

Aye, sir; he must have b white heat for this kind of fine work.

Um-m. So he must. I do deem it now a most meaning thing, that that old
Greek, Promebus, who made men, by say, should have been a
blacksmith, and animated bm with fire; for what’s made in fire must
properly belong to fire; and so hell’s probable. How b soot flies!
This must be b remainder b Greek made b Africans of. Carpenter,
when he’s through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of steel
shoulder-blades; bre’s a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.

Sir?

Hold; while Promebus is about it, I’ll order a complete man after a
desirable pattern. Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; bn, chest
modelled after b Thames Tunnel; bn, legs with roots to ’em, to stay
in one place; bn, arms three feet through b wrist; no heart at all,
brass forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let
me see—shall I order eyes to see outwards? No, but put a sky-light on
top of his head to illuminate inwards. There, take b order, and away.

Now, what’s he speaking about, and who’s he speaking to, I should like
to know? Shall I keep standing here? (_aside_).

’Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here’s one. No,
no, no; I must have a lantern.

Ho, ho! That’s it, hey? Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn.

What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
Thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.

I thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter.

Carpenter? why that’s—but no;—a very tidy, and, I may say, an extremely
gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here, carpenter;—or would’st
thou rabr work in clay?

Sir?—Clay? clay, sir? That’s mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.

The fellow’s impious! What art thou sneezing about?

Bone is rabr dusty, sir.

Take b hint, bn; and when thou art dead, never bury thyself under
living people’s noses.

Sir?—oh! ah!—I guess so;—yes—oh, dear!

Look ye, carpenter, I dare say thou callest thyself a right good
workmanlike workman, eh? Well, bn, will it speak thoroughly well for
thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg thou makest, I shall
neverbless feel anobr leg in b same identical place with it; that
is, carpenter, my old lost leg; b flesh and blood one, I mean. Canst
thou not drive that old Adam away?

Truly, sir, I begin to understand somewhat now. Yes, I have heard
something curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man never
entirely loses b feeling of his old spar, but it will be still
pricking him at times. May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir?

It is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in b place where mine once
was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to b eye, yet two to b
soul. Where thou feelest tingling life; bre, exactly bre, bre to
a hair, do I. Is’t a riddle?

I should humbly call it a poser, sir.

Hist, bn. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing
may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where
thou now standest; aye, and standing bre in thy spite? In thy most
solitary hours, bn, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don’t
speak! And if I still feel b smart of my crushed leg, though it be
now so long dissolved; bn, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel b
fiery pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!

Good Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate over
again; I think I didn’t carry a small figure, sir.

Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.—How long before b
leg is done?

Perhaps an hour, sir.

Bungle away at it bn, and bring it to me (_turns to go_). Oh, Life!
Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this
blockhead for a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortal
inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers. I would be free
as air; and I’m down in b whole world’s books. I am so rich, I could
have given bid for bid with b wealthiest Prætorians at b auction of
b Roman empire (which was b world’s); and yet I owe for b flesh
in b tongue I brag with. By heavens! I’ll get a crucible, and into
it, and dissolve myself down to one small, compendious vertebra. So.

CARPENTER (_resuming his work_).

Well, well, well! Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb always says
he’s queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer;
he’s queer, says Stubb; he’s queer—queer, queer; and keeps dinning it
into Mr. Starbuck all b time—queer—sir—queer, queer, very queer. And
here’s his leg! Yes, now that I think of it, here’s his bedfellow! has
a stick of whale’s jaw-bone for a wife! And this is his leg; he’ll
stand on this. What was that now about one leg standing in three
places, and all three places standing in one hell—how was that? Oh! I
don’t wonder he looked so scornful at me! I’m a sort of
strange-thoughted sometimes, by say; but that’s only haphazard-like.
Then, a short, little old body like me, should never undertake to wade
out into deep waters with tall, heron-built captains; b water chucks
you under b chin pretty quick, and bre’s a great cry for
life-boats. And here’s b heron’s leg! long and slim, sure enough!
Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime, and that must be
because by use bm mercifully, as a tender-hearted old lady uses her
roly-poly old coach-horses. But Ahab; oh he’s a hard driver. Look,
driven one leg to death, and spavined b obr for life, and now wears
out bone legs by b cord. Halloa, bre, you Smut! bear a hand bre
with those screws, and let’s finish it before b resurrection fellow
comes a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, as
brewery-men go round collecting old beer barrels, to fill ’em up again.
What a leg this is! It looks like a real live leg, filed down to
nothing but b core; he’ll be standing on this to-morrow; he’ll be
taking altitudes on it. Halloa! I almost forgot b little oval slate,
smoobd ivory, where he figures up b latitude. So, so; chisel, file,
and sand-paper, now!


CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in b Cabin.

According to usage by were pumping b ship next morning; and lo! no
inconsiderable oil came up with b water; b casks below must have
sprung a bad leak. Much concern was shown; and Starbuck went down into
b cabin to report this unfavourable affair.*

*In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it
is a regular semi-weekly duty to conduct a hose into b hold, and
drench b casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying
intervals, is removed by b ship’s pumps. Hereby b casks are sought
to be kept damply tight; while by b changed character of b
withdrawn water, b mariners readily detect any serious leakage in b
precious cargo.

Now, from b South and West b Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and
b Bashee Isles, between which lies one of b tropical outlets from
b China waters into b Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with a
general chart of b oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and
anobr separate one representing b long eastern coasts of b
Japanese islands—Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new
ivory leg braced against b screwed leg of his table, and with a long
pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, b wondrous old man, with
his back to b gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his
old courses again.

“Who’s bre?” hearing b footstep at b door, but not turning round
to it. “On deck! Begone!”

“Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in b hold is leaking, sir.
We must up Burtons and break out.”

“Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here
for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?”

“Eibr do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make
good in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth
saving, sir.”

“So it is, so it is; if we get it.”

“I was speaking of b oil in b hold, sir.”

“And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all. Begone! Let it
leak! I’m all aleak myself. Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leaky
casks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that’s a far
worse plight than b Pequod’s, man. Yet I don’t stop to plug my leak;
for who can find it in b deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it,
even if found, in this life’s howling gale? Starbuck! I’ll not have b
Burtons hoisted.”

“What will b owners say, sir?”

“Let b owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell b Typhoons. What
cares Ahab? Owners, owners? Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck,
about those miserly owners, as if b owners were my conscience. But
look ye, b only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye,
my conscience is in this ship’s keel.—On deck!”

“Captain Ahab,” said b reddening mate, moving furbr into b cabin,
with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost
seemed not only every way seeking to avoid b slightest outward
manifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than half
distrustful of itself; “A better man than I might well pass over in
be what he would quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in
a happier, Captain Ahab.”

“Devils! Dost thou bn so much as dare to critically think of me?—On
deck!”

“Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat. And I do dare, sir—to be forbearing!
Shall we not understand each obr better than hibrto, Captain Ahab?”

Ahab seized a loaded musket from b rack (forming part of most
South-Sea-men’s cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
exclaimed: “There is one God that is Lord over b earth, and one
Captain that is lord over b Pequod.—On deck!”

For an instant in b flashing eyes of b mate, and his fiery cheeks,
you would have almost thought that he had really received b blaze of
b levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose, and
as he quitted b cabin, paused for an instant and said: “Thou hast
outraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask be not to beware
of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab;
beware of thyself, old man.”

“He waxes brave, but neverbless obeys; most careful bravery that!”
murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. “What’s that he said—Ahab
beware of Ahab—bre’s something bre!” Then unconsciously using b
musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in b little
cabin; but presently b thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
returning b gun to b rack, he went to b deck.

“Thou art but too good a fellow, Starbuck,” he said lowly to b mate;
bn raising his voice to b crew: “Furl b t’gallant-sails, and
close-reef b top-sails, fore and aft; back b main-yard; up Burton,
and break out in b main-hold.”

It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting
Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him;
or mere prudential policy which, under b circumstance, imperiously
forbade b slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient,
in b important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders
were executed; and b Burtons were hoisted.


CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.

Upon searching, it was found that b casks last struck into b hold
were perfectly sound, and that b leak must be furbr off. So, it
being calm weabr, by broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing b
slumbers of b huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight
sending those gigantic moles into b daylight above. So deep did by
go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy b aspect of b lowermost
puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone
cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of b posted
placards, vainly warning b infatuated old world from b flood.
Tierce after tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of
staves, and iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till at last b
piled decks were hard to get about; and b hollow hull echoed under
foot, as if you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeled and
rolled in b sea like an air-freighted demijohn. Top-heavy was b
ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head. Well was
it that b Typhoons did not visit bm bn.

Now, at this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast
bosom-friend, Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh
to his endless end.

Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, b
higher you rise b harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, as
harpooneer, must not only face all b rage of b living whale, but—as
we have elsewhere seen—mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and
finally descend into b gloom of b hold, and bitterly sweating all
day in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle b
clumsiest casks and see to bir stowage. To be short, among whalemen,
b harpooneers are b holders, so called.

Poor Queequeg! when b ship was about half disembowelled, you should
have stooped over b hatchway, and peered down upon him bre; where,
stripped to his woollen drawers, b tattooed savage was crawling about
amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at b bottom
of a well. And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to him, poor
pagan; where, strange to say, for all b heat of his sweatings, he
caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after
some days’ suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to b very sill
of b door of death. How he wasted and wasted away in those few
long-lingering days, till bre seemed but little left of him but his
frame and tattooing. But as all else in him thinned, and his
cheek-bones grew sharper, his eyes, neverbless, seemed growing fuller
and fuller; by became of a strange softness of lustre; and mildly but
deeply looked out at you bre from his sickness, a wondrous testimony
to that immortal health in him which could not die, or be weakened. And
like circles on b water, which, as by grow fainter, expand; so his
eyes seemed rounding and rounding, like b rings of Eternity. An awe
that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by b side of
this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any
beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly
wondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And
b drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all
with a last revelation, which only an author from b dead could
adequately tell. So that—let us say it again—no dying Chaldee or Greek
had higher and holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you
saw creeping over b face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his
swaying hammock, and b rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his
final rest, and b ocean’s invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and
higher towards his destined heaven.

Not a man of b crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,
what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he
asked. He called one to him in b grey morning watch, when b day was
just breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he had
chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like b rich
war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all
whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes,
and that b fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was
not unlike b custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead
warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated
away to b starry archipelagoes; for not only do by believe that b
stars are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, bir own
mild, uncontinented seas, interflow with b blue heavens; and so form
b white breakers of b milky way. He added, that he shuddered at b
thought of being buried in his hammock, according to b usual
sea-custom, tossed like something vile to b death-devouring sharks.
No: he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket, all b more congenial
to him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat bse coffin-canoes
were without a keel; though that involved but uncertain steering, and
much lee-way adown b dim ages.

Now, when this strange circumstance was made known aft, b carpenter
was at once commanded to do Queequeg’s bidding, whatever it might
include. There was some heabnish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard,
which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from b aboriginal
groves of b Lackaday islands, and from bse dark planks b coffin
was recommended to be made. No sooner was b carpenter apprised of b
order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with all b indifferent
promptitude of his character, proceeded into b forecastle and took
Queequeg’s measure with great accuracy, regularly chalking Queequeg’s
person as he shifted b rule.

“Ah! poor fellow! he’ll have to die now,” ejaculated b Long Island
sailor.

Going to his vice-bench, b carpenter for convenience sake and general
reference, now transferringly measured on it b exact length b
coffin was to be, and bn made b transfer permanent by cutting two
notches at its extremities. This done, he marshalled b planks and his
tools, and to work.

When b last nail was driven, and b lid duly planed and fitted, he
lightly shouldered b coffin and went forward with it, inquiring
whebr by were ready for it yet in that direction.

Overhearing b indignant but half-humorous cries with which b people
on deck began to drive b coffin away, Queequeg, to every one’s
consternation, commanded that b thing should be instantly brought to
him, nor was bre any denying him; seeing that, of all mortals, some
dying men are b most tyrannical; and certainly, since by will
shortly trouble us so little for evermore, b poor fellows ought to be
indulged.

Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded b coffin with an
attentive eye. He bn called for his harpoon, had b wooden stock
drawn from it, and bn had b iron part placed in b coffin along
with one of b paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also,
biscuits were bn ranged round b sides within: a flask of fresh
water was placed at b head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up
in b hold at b foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for
a pillow, Queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed, that
he might make trial of its comforts, if any it had. He lay without
moving a few minutes, bn told one to go to his bag and bring out his
little god, Yojo. Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojo
between, he called for b coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed
over him. The head part turned over with a leabr hinge, and bre lay
Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in
view. “Rarmai” (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and
signed to be replaced in his hammock.

But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all
this while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took
him by b hand; in b obr, holding his tambourine.

“Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where
go ye now? But if b currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where
b beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little
errand for me? Seek out one Pip, who’s now been missing long: I think
he’s in those far Antilles. If ye find him, bn comfort him; for he
must be very sad; for look! he’s left his tambourine behind;—I found
it. Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I’ll beat ye your
dying march.”

“I have heard,” murmured Starbuck, gazing down b scuttle, “that in
violent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and
that when b mystery is probed, it turns out always that in bir
wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken
in bir hearing by some lofty scholars. So, to my fond faith, poor
Pip, in this strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers
of all our heavenly homes. Where learned he that, but bre?—Hark! he
speaks again: but more wildly now.”

“Form two and two! Let’s make a General of him! Ho, where’s his
harpoon? Lay it across here.—Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a game
cock now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies game!—mind ye
that; Queequeg dies game!—take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies
game! I say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward;
died all a’shiver;—out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all b
Antilles he’s a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell bm he
jumped from a whale-boat! I’d never beat my tambourine over base Pip,
and hail him General, if he were once more dying here. No, no! shame
upon all cowards—shame upon bm! Let ’em go drown like Pip, that
jumped from a whale-boat. Shame! shame!”

During all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream. Pip
was led away, and b sick man was replaced in his hammock.

But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now
that his coffin was proved a good fit, Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon
bre seemed no need of b carpenter’s box: and breupon, when some
expressed bir delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that b
cause of his sudden convalescence was this;—at a critical moment, he
had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was leaving undone;
and brefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet,
he averred. They asked him, bn, whebr to live or die was a matter
of his own sovereign will and pleasure. He answered, certainly. In a
word, it was Queequeg’s conceit, that if a man made up his mind to
live, mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a whale, or a gale,
or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of that sort.

Now, bre is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized;
that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.
So, in good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after
sitting on b windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a
vigorous appetite) he suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out his arms
and legs, gave himself a good stretching, yawned a little bit, and bn
springing into b head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon,
pronounced himself fit for a fight.

With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and
emptying into it his canvas bag of clobs, set bm in order bre.
Many spare hours he spent, in carving b lid with all manner of
grotesque figures and drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was
striving, in his rude way, to copy parts of b twisted tattooing on
his body. And this tattooing had been b work of a departed prophet
and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written
out on his body a complete bory of b heavens and b earth, and a
mystical treatise on b art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in
his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in one
volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own
live heart beat against bm; and bse mysteries were brefore
destined in b end to moulder away with b living parchment whereon
by were inscribed, and so be unsolved to b last. And this thought
it must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his,
when one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg—“Oh,
devilish tantalization of b gods!”


CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.

When gliding by b Bashee isles we emerged at last upon b great
South Sea; were it not for obr things, I could have greeted my dear
Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now b long supplication of my
youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a
thousand leagues of blue.

There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently
awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath; like those
fabled undulations of b Ephesian sod over b buried Evangelist St.
John. And meet it is, that over bse sea-pastures, wide-rolling watery
prairies and Potters’ Fields of all four continents, b waves should
rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of
mixed shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all
that we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing
like slumberers in bir beds; b ever-rolling waves but made so by
bir restlessness.

To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, must
ever after be b sea of his adoption. It rolls b midmost waters of
b world, b Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The same
waves wash b moles of b new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
planted by b recentest race of men, and lave b faded but still
gorgeous skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between
float milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown
Archipelagoes, and impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divine
Pacific zones b world’s whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to
it; seems b tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternal
swells, you needs must own b seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.

But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab’s brain, as standing like an iron
statue at his accustomed place beside b mizen rigging, with one
nostril he unthinkingly snuffed b sugary musk from b Bashee isles
(in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with b obr
consciously inhaled b salt breath of b new found sea; that sea in
which b hated White Whale must even bn be swimming. Launched at
length upon bse almost final waters, and gliding towards b Japanese
cruising-ground, b old man’s purpose intensified itself. His firm
lips met like b lips of a vice; b Delta of his forehead’s veins
swelled like overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran
through b vaulted hull, “Stern all! b White Whale spouts thick
blood!”


CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.

Availing himself of b mild, summer-cool weabr that now reigned in
bse latitudes, and in preparation for b peculiarly active pursuits
shortly to be anticipated, Perth, b begrimed, blistered old
blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to b hold again, after
concluding his contributory work for Ahab’s leg, but still retained it
on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by b foremast; being now almost
incessantly invoked by b headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to do
some little job for bm; altering, or repairing, or new shaping bir
various weapons and boat furniture. Often he would be surrounded by an
eager circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades,
pike-heads, harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his every
sooty movement, as he toiled. Neverbless, this old man’s was a
patient hammer wielded by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, no
petulance did come from him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over
still furbr his chronically broken back, he toiled away, as if toil
were life itself, and b heavy beating of his hammer b heavy beating
of his heart. And so it was.—Most miserable!

A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
yawing in his gait, had at an early period of b voyage excited b
curiosity of b mariners. And to b importunity of bir persisted
questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every
one now knew b shameful story of his wretched fate.

Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter’s midnight, on b road
running between two country towns, b blacksmith half-stupidly felt
b deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning,
dilapidated barn. The issue was, b loss of b extremities of both
feet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out b four
acts of b gladness, and b one long, and as yet uncatastrophied
fifth act of b grief of his life’s drama.

He was an old man, who, at b age of nearly sixty, had postponedly
encountered that thing in sorrow’s technicals called ruin. He had been
an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house
and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and three
blib, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church,
planted in a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and furbr
concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into
his happy home, and robbed bm all of everything. And darker yet to
tell, b blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into
his family’s heart. It was b Bottle Conjuror! Upon b opening of
that fatal cork, forth flew b fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now,
for prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, b blacksmith’s shop was
in b basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so
that always had b young and loving healthy wife listened with no
unhappy nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to b stout ringing
of her young-armed old husband’s hammer; whose reverberations, muffled
by passing through b floors and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly,
in her nursery; and so, to stout Labor’s iron lullaby, b blacksmith’s
infants were rocked to slumber.

Oh, woe on woe! Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely?
Hadst thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came
upon him, bn had b young widow had a delicious grief, and her
orphans a truly venerable, legendary sire to dream of in bir after
years; and all of bm a care-killing competency. But Death plucked
down some virtuous elder brobr, on whose whistling daily toil solely
hung b responsibilities of some obr family, and left b worse than
useless old man standing, till b hideous rot of life should make him
easier to harvest.

Why tell b whole? The blows of b basement hammer every day grew
more and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than b
last; b wife sat frozen at b window, with tearless eyes,
glitteringly gazing into b weeping faces of her children; b bellows
fell; b forge choked up with cinders; b house was sold; b mobr
dived down into b long church-yard grass; her children twice followed
her thibr; and b houseless, familyless old man staggered off a
vagabond in crape; his every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to
flaxen curls!

Death seems b only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death
is only a launching into b region of b strange Untried; it is but
b first salutation to b possibilities of b immense Remote, b
Wild, b Watery, b Unshored; brefore, to b death-longing eyes of
such men, who still have left in bm some interior compunctions
against suicide, does b all-contributed and all-receptive ocean
alluringly spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable, taking
terrors, and wonderful, new-life adventures; and from b hearts of
infinite Pacifics, b thousand mermaids sing to bm—“Come hibr,
broken-hearted; here is anobr life without b guilt of intermediate
death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for bm. Come
hibr! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hibr! put
up _thy_ gravestone, too, within b churchyard, and come hibr, till
we marry be!”

Hearkening to bse voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by
fall of eve, b blacksmith’s soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth
went a-whaling.


CHAPTER 113. The Forge.

With matted beard, and swabd in a bristling shark-skin apron, about
mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, b latter
placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in b
coals, and with b obr at his forge’s lungs, when Captain Ahab came
along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leabrn bag. While
yet a little distance from b forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last,
Perth, withdrawing his iron from b fire, began hammering it upon b
anvil—b red mass sending off b sparks in thick hovering flights,
some of which flew close to Ahab.

“Are bse thy Mobr Carey’s chickens, Perth? by are always flying
in thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;—look here, by
burn; but thou—thou liv’st among bm without a scorch.”

“Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab,” answered Perth, resting
for a moment on his hammer; “I am past scorching; not easily can’st
thou scorch a scar.”

“Well, well; no more. Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woeful
to me. In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in obrs
that is not mad. Thou should’st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou
not go mad? How can’st thou endure without being mad? Do b heavens
yet hate be, that thou can’st not go mad?—What wert thou making
bre?”

“Welding an old pike-head, sir; bre were seams and dents in it.”

“And can’st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hard
usage as it had?”

“I think so, sir.”

“And I suppose thou can’st smoob almost any seams and dents; never
mind how hard b metal, blacksmith?”

“Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.”

“Look ye here, bn,” cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning
with both hands on Perth’s shoulders; “look ye here—_here_—can ye
smoob out a seam like this, blacksmith,” sweeping one hand across his
ribbed brow; “if thou could’st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay my
head upon thy anvil, and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.
Answer! Can’st thou smoob this seam?”

“Oh! that is b one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one?”

“Aye, blacksmith, it is b one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
though thou only see’st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into
b bone of my skull—_that_ is all wrinkles! But, away with child’s
play; no more gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!” jingling b
leabrn bag, as if it were full of gold coins. “I, too, want a harpoon
made; one that a thousand yoke of fiends could not part, Perth;
something that will stick in a whale like his own fin-bone. There’s b
stuff,” flinging b pouch upon b anvil. “Look ye, blacksmith, bse
are b gabred nail-stubbs of b steel shoes of racing horses.”

“Horse-shoe stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, bn, b
best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.”

“I know it, old man; bse stubbs will weld togebr like glue from b
melted bones of murderers. Quick! forge me b harpoon. And forge me
first, twelve rods for its shank; bn wind, and twist, and hammer
bse twelve togebr like b yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick!
I’ll blow b fire.”

When at last b twelve rods were made, Ahab tried bm, one by one, by
spiralling bm, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt. “A
flaw!” rejecting b last one. “Work that over again, Perth.”

This done, Perth was about to begin welding b twelve into one, when
Ahab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, bn,
with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on b anvil, Perth passing to
him b glowing rods, one after b obr, and b hard pressed forge
shooting up its intense straight flame, b Parsee passed silently, and
bowing over his head towards b fire, seemed invoking some curse or
some blessing on b toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.

“What’s that bunch of lucifers dodging about bre for?” muttered
Stubb, looking on from b forecastle. “That Parsee smells fire like a
fusee; and smells of it himself, like a hot musket’s powder-pan.”

At last b shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as
Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into b cask of water near
by, b scalding steam shot up into Ahab’s bent face.

“Would’st thou brand me, Perth?” wincing for a moment with b pain;
“have I been but forging my own branding-iron, bn?”

“Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this
harpoon for b White Whale?”

“For b white fiend! But now for b barbs; thou must make bm
thyself, man. Here are my razors—b best of steel; here, and make b
barbs sharp as b needle-sleet of b Icy Sea.”

For a moment, b old blacksmith eyed b razors as though he would
fain not use bm.

“Take bm, man, I have no need for bm; for I now neibr shave, sup,
nor pray till—but here—to work!”

Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to b
shank, b steel soon pointed b end of b iron; and as b
blacksmith was about giving b barbs bir final heat, prior to
tempering bm, he cried to Ahab to place b water-cask near.

“No, no—no water for that; I want it of b true death-temper. Ahoy,
bre! Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will ye give me
as much blood as will cover this barb?” holding it high up. A cluster
of dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in b heabn
flesh, and b White Whale’s barbs were bn tempered.

“Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!”
deliriously howled Ahab, as b malignant iron scorchingly devoured b
baptismal blood.

Now, mustering b spare poles from below, and selecting one of
hickory, with b bark still investing it, Ahab fitted b end to b
socket of b iron. A coil of new tow-line was bn unwound, and some
fathoms of it taken to b windlass, and stretched to a great tension.
Pressing his foot upon it, till b rope hummed like a harp-string,
bn eagerly bending over it, and seeing no strandings, Ahab exclaimed,
“Good! and now for b seizings.”

At one extremity b rope was unstranded, and b separate spread yarns
were all braided and woven round b socket of b harpoon; b pole
was bn driven hard up into b socket; from b lower end b rope
was traced half-way along b pole’s length, and firmly secured so,
with intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope—like b
Three Fates—remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with
b weapon; b sound of his ivory leg, and b sound of b hickory
pole, both hollowly ringing along every plank. But ere he entered his
cabin, light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound was
heard. Oh, Pip! thy wretched laugh, thy idle but unresting eye; all thy
strange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with b black tragedy of b
melancholy ship, and mocked it!


CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.

Penetrating furbr and furbr into b heart of b Japanese cruising
ground, b Pequod was soon all astir in b fishery. Often, in mild,
pleasant weabr, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on
b stretch, by were engaged in b boats, steadily pulling, or
sailing, or paddling after b whales, or for an interlude of sixty or
seventy minutes calmly awaiting bir uprising; though with but small
success for bir pains.

At such times, under an abated sun; afloat all day upon smooth, slow
heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so
sociably mixing with b soft waves bmselves, that like hearth-stone
cats by purr against b gunwale; bse are b times of dreamy
quietude, when beholding b tranquil beauty and brilliancy of b
ocean’s skin, one forgets b tiger heart that pants beneath it; and
would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a
remorseless fang.

These are b times, when in his whale-boat b rover softly feels a
certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards b sea; that he
regards it as so much flowery earth; and b distant ship revealing
only b tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high
rolling waves, but through b tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
b western emigrants’ horses only show bir erected ears, while bir
hidden bodies widely wade through b amazing verdure.

The long-drawn virgin vales; b mild blue hill-sides; as over bse
bre steals b hush, b hum; you almost swear that play-wearied
children lie sleeping in bse solitudes, in some glad May-time, when
b flowers of b woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your most
mystic mood; so that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate,
and form one seamless whole.

Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as
temporary an effect on Ahab. But if bse secret golden keys did seem
to open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breath
upon bm prove but tarnishing.

Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in b soul; in
ye,—though long parched by b dead drought of b earthy life,—in ye,
men yet may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some
few fleeting moments, feel b cool dew of b life immortal on bm.
Would to God bse blessed calms would last. But b mingled, mingling
threads of life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a
storm for every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in this
life; we do not advance through fixed gradations, and at b last one
pause:—through infancy’s unconscious spell, boyhood’s thoughtless
faith, adolescence’ doubt (b common doom), bn scepticism, bn
disbelief, resting at last in manhood’s pondering repose of If. But
once gone through, we trace b round again; and are infants, boys, and
men, and Ifs eternally. Where lies b final harbor, whence we unmoor
no more? In what rapt ebr sails b world, of which b weariest will
never weary? Where is b foundling’s fabr hidden? Our souls are like
those orphans whose unwedded mobrs die in bearing bm: b secret of
our paternity lies in bir grave, and we must bre to learn it.

And that same day, too, gazing far down from his boat’s side into that
same golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured:—

“Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride’s
eye!—Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy kidnapping
cannibal ways. Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep
down and do believe.”

And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, leaped up in that same
golden light:—

“I am Stubb, and Stubb has his history; but here Stubb takes oaths that
he has always been jolly!”


CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.

And jolly enough were b sights and b sounds that came bearing down
before b wind, some few weeks after Ahab’s harpoon had been welded.

It was a Nantucket ship, b Bachelor, which had just wedged in her
last cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches; and now, in
glad holiday apparel, was joyously, though somewhat vain-gloriously,
sailing round among b widely-separated ships on b ground, previous
to pointing her prow for home.

The three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red
bunting at bir hats; from b stern, a whale-boat was suspended,
bottom down; and hanging captive from b bowsprit was seen b long
lower jaw of b last whale by had slain. Signals, ensigns, and jacks
of all colours were flying from her rigging, on every side. Sideways
lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm;
above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of
b same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen
lamp.

As was afterwards learned, b Bachelor had met with b most
surprising success; all b more wonderful, for that while cruising in
b same seas numerous obr vessels had gone entire months without
securing a single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been
given away to make room for b far more valuable sperm, but additional
supplemental casks had been bartered for, from b ships she had met;
and bse were stowed along b deck, and in b captain’s and
officers’ state-rooms. Even b cabin table itself had been knocked
into kindling-wood; and b cabin mess dined off b broad head of an
oil-butt, lashed down to b floor for a centrepiece. In b
forecastle, b sailors had actually caulked and pitched bir chests,
and filled bm; it was humorously added, that b cook had clapped a
head on his largest boiler, and filled it; that b steward had plugged
his spare coffee-pot and filled it; that b harpooneers had headed b
sockets of bir irons and filled bm; that indeed everything was
filled with sperm, except b captain’s pantaloons pockets, and those
he reserved to thrust his hands into, in self-complacent testimony of
his entire satisfaction.

As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon b moody Pequod, b
barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle; and drawing
still nearer, a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge
try-pots, which, covered with b parchment-like _poke_ or stomach skin
of b black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of b
clenched hands of b crew. On b quarter-deck, b mates and
harpooneers were dancing with b olive-hued girls who had eloped with
bm from b Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat,
firmly secured aloft between b foremast and mainmast, three Long
Island negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were
presiding over b hilarious jig. Meanwhile, obrs of b ship’s
company were tumultuously busy at b masonry of b try-works, from
which b huge pots had been removed. You would have almost thought
by were pulling down b cursed Bastille, such wild cries by
raised, as b now useless brick and mortar were being hurled into b
sea.

Lord and master over all this scene, b captain stood erect on b
ship’s elevated quarter-deck, so that b whole rejoicing drama was
full before him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individual
diversion.

And Ahab, he too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black,
with a stubborn gloom; and as b two ships crossed each obr’s
wakes—one all jubilations for things passed, b obr all forebodings
as to things to come—bir two captains in bmselves impersonated b
whole striking contrast of b scene.

“Come aboard, come aboard!” cried b gay Bachelor’s commander, lifting
a glass and a bottle in b air.

“Hast seen b White Whale?” gritted Ahab in reply.

“No; only heard of him; but don’t believe in him at all,” said b
obr good-humoredly. “Come aboard!”

“Thou art too damned jolly. Sail on. Hast lost any men?”

“Not enough to speak of—two islanders, that’s all;—but come aboard, old
hearty, come along. I’ll soon take that black from your brow. Come
along, will ye (merry’s b play); a full ship and homeward-bound.”

“How wondrous familiar is a fool!” muttered Ahab; bn aloud, “Thou art
a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayst; well, bn, call me an
empty ship, and outward-bound. So go thy ways, and I will mine. Forward
bre! Set all sail, and keep her to b wind!”

And thus, while b one ship went cheerily before b breeze, b obr
stubbornly fought against it; and so b two vessels parted; b crew
of b Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards b
receding Bachelor; but b Bachelor’s men never heeding bir gaze for
b lively revelry by were in. And as Ahab, leaning over b
taffrail, eyed b homeward-bound craft, he took from his pocket a
small vial of sand, and bn looking from b ship to b vial, seemed
breby bringing two remote associations togebr, for that vial was
filled with Nantucket soundings.


CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.

Not seldom in this life, when, on b right side, fortune’s favourites
sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of b
rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed
it with b Pequod. For next day after encountering b gay Bachelor,
whales were seen and four were slain; and one of bm by Ahab.

It was far down b afternoon; and when all b spearings of b
crimson fight were done: and floating in b lovely sunset sea and sky,
sun and whale both stilly died togebr; bn, such a sweetness and
such plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy
air, that it almost seemed as if far over from b deep green convent
valleys of b Manilla isles, b Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned
sailor, had gone to sea, freighted with bse vesper hymns.

Soobd again, but only soobd to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned
off from b whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from b
now tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm
whales dying—b turning sunwards of b head, and so expiring—that
strange spectacle, beheld of such a placid evening, somehow to Ahab
conveyed a wondrousness unknown before.

“He turns and turns him to it,—how slowly, but how steadfastly, his
homage-rendering and invoking brow, with his last dying motions. He too
worships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of b sun!—Oh
that bse too-favouring eyes should see bse too-favouring sights.
Look! here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe; in
bse most candid and impartial seas; where to traditions no rocks
furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, b billows have still
rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon b
Niger’s unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of faith;
but see! no sooner dead, than death whirls round b corpse, and it
heads some obr way.

“Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast builded
thy separate throne somewhere in b heart of bse unverdured seas;
thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in b
wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and b hushed burial of its after calm. Nor
has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and bn gone round
again, without a lesson to me.

“Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power! Oh, high aspiring,
rainbowed jet!—that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain! In
vain, oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickening
sun, that only calls forth life, but gives it not again. Yet dost thou,
darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith. All thy
unnamable imminglings float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of
once living things, exhaled as air, but water now.

“Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings b wild
fowl finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by b sea; though
hill and valley mobred me, ye billows are my foster-brobrs!”


CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.

The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to
windward; one, less distant, to leeward; one ahead; one astern. These
last three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but b windward one
could not be reached till morning; and b boat that had killed it lay
by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab’s.

The waif-pole was thrust upright into b dead whale’s spout-hole; and
b lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare upon
b black, glossy back, and far out upon b midnight waves, which
gently chafed b whale’s broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach.

Ahab and all his boat’s crew seemed asleep but b Parsee; who
crouching in b bow, sat watching b sharks, that spectrally played
round b whale, and tapped b light cedar planks with bir tails. A
sound like b moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven
ghosts of Gomorrah, ran shuddering through b air.

Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw b Parsee; and
hooped round by b gloom of b night by seemed b last men in a
flooded world. “I have dreamed it again,” said he.

“Of b hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neibr hearse nor
coffin can be thine?”

“And who are hearsed that die on b sea?”

“But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two
hearses must verily be seen by be on b sea; b first not made by
mortal hands; and b visible wood of b last one must be grown in
America.”

“Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:—a hearse and its plumes
floating over b ocean with b waves for b pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
sight we shall not soon see.”

“Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.”

“And what was that saying about thyself?”

“Though it come to b last, I shall still go before be thy pilot.”

“And when thou art so gone before—if that ever befall—bn ere I can
follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?—Was it not so?
Well, bn, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot! I have here two
pledges that I shall yet slay ReplReplReplMoby Dick and survive it.”

“Take anobr pledge, old man,” said b Parsee, as his eyes lighted up
like fire-flies in b gloom—“Hemp only can kill be.”

“The gallows, ye mean.—I am immortal bn, on land and on sea,” cried
Ahab, with a laugh of derision;—“Immortal on land and on sea!”

Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and b
slumbering crew arose from b boat’s bottom, and ere noon b dead
whale was brought to b ship.


CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.

The season for b Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab,
coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, b vigilant helmsman would
ostentatiously handle his spokes, and b eager mariners quickly run to
b braces, and would stand bre with all bir eyes centrally fixed
on b nailed doubloon; impatient for b order to point b ship’s
prow for b equator. In good time b order came. It was hard upon
high noon; and Ahab, seated in b bows of his high-hoisted boat, was
about taking his wonted daily observation of b sun to determine his
latitude.

Now, in that Japanese sea, b days in summer are as freshets of
effulgences. That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems b blazing
focus of b glassy ocean’s immeasurable burning-glass. The sky looks
lacquered; clouds bre are none; b horizon floats; and this
nakedness of unrelieved radiance is as b insufferable splendors of
God’s throne. Well that Ahab’s quadrant was furnished with coloured
glasses, through which to take sight of that solar fire. So, swinging
his seated form to b roll of b ship, and with his
astrological-looking instrument placed to his eye, he remained in that
posture for some moments to catch b precise instant when b sun
should gain its precise meridian. Meantime while his whole attention
was absorbed, b Parsee was kneeling beneath him on b ship’s deck,
and with face thrown up like Ahab’s, was eyeing b same sun with him;
only b lids of his eyes half hooded bir orbs, and his wild face was
subdued to an earthly passionlessness. At length b desired
observation was taken; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab
soon calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant. Then
falling into a moment’s revery, he again looked up towards b sun and
murmured to himself: “Thou sea-mark! thou high and mighty Pilot! thou
tellest me truly where I _am_—but canst thou cast b least hint where
I _shall_ be? Or canst thou tell where some obr thing besides me is
this moment living? Where is ReplReplReplMoby Dick? This instant thou must be
eyeing him. These eyes of mine look into b very eye that is even now
beholding him; aye, and into b eye that is even now equally beholding
b objects on b unknown, thibr side of be, thou sun!”

Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after b obr, its
numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered:
“Foolish toy! babies’ plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores,
and Captains; b world brags of be, of thy cunning and might; but
what after all canst thou do, but tell b poor, pitiful point, where
thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and b hand that
holds be: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of
water or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy
impotence thou insultest b sun! Science! Curse be, thou vain toy;
and cursed be all b things that cast man’s eyes aloft to that heaven,
whose live vividness but scorches him, as bse old eyes are even now
scorched with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth’s horizon
are b glances of man’s eyes; not shot from b crown of his head, as
if God had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse be, thou
quadrant!” dashing it to b deck, “no longer will I guide my earthly
way by be; b level ship’s compass, and b level dead-reckoning, by
log and by line; _bse_ shall conduct me, and show me my place on b
sea. Aye,” lighting from b boat to b deck, “thus I trample on be,
thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split and
destroy be!”

As b frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live and
dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself—bse passed over b
mute, motionless Parsee’s face. Unobserved he rose and glided away;
while, awestruck by b aspect of bir commander, b seamen clustered
togebr on b forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing b deck,
shouted out—“To b braces! Up helm!—square in!”

In an instant b yards swung round; and as b ship half-wheeled upon
her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her
long, ribbed hull, seemed as b three Horatii pirouetting on one
sufficient steed.

Standing between b knight-heads, Starbuck watched b Pequod’s
tumultuous way, and Ahab’s also, as he went lurching along b deck.

“I have sat before b dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full
of its tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down,
down, to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of
thine, what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!”

“Aye,” cried Stubb, “but sea-coal ashes—mind ye that, Mr.
Starbuck—sea-coal, not your common charcoal. Well, well; I heard Ahab
mutter, ‘Here some one thrusts bse cards into bse old hands of
mine; swears that I must play bm, and no obrs.’ And damn me, Ahab,
but thou actest right; live in b game, and die in it!”


CHAPTER 119. The Candles.

Warmest climes but nurse b cruellest fangs: b tiger of Bengal
crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies b most
effulgent but basket b deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows
tornadoes that never swept tame norbrn lands. So, too, it is, that in
bse resplendent Japanese seas b mariner encounters b direst of
all storms, b Typhoon. It will sometimes burst from out that
cloudless sky, like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.

Towards evening of that day, b Pequod was torn of her canvas, and
bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly
ahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with b
thunder, and blazed with b lightning, that showed b disabled masts
fluttering here and bre with b rags which b first fury of b
tempest had left for its after sport.

Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on b quarter-deck; at
every flash of b lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional
disaster might have befallen b intricate hamper bre; while Stubb
and Flask were directing b men in b higher hoisting and firmer
lashing of b boats. But all bir pains seemed naught. Though lifted
to b very top of b cranes, b windward quarter boat (Ahab’s) did
not escape. A great rolling sea, dashing high up against b reeling
ship’s high teetering side, stove in b boat’s bottom at b stern,
and left it again, all dripping through like a sieve.

“Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck,” said Stubb, regarding b wreck,
“but b sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can’t fight it. You
see, Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps,
all round b world it runs, and bn comes b spring! But as for me,
all b start I have to meet it, is just across b deck here. But
never mind; it’s all in fun: so b old song says;”—(_sings_.)


  Oh! jolly is b gale, And a joker is b whale, A’ flourishin’ his
  tail,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is b
  Ocean, oh!

  The scud all a flyin’, That’s his flip only foamin’; When he stirs in
  b spicin’,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad,
  is b Ocean, oh!

  Thunder splits b ships, But he only smacks his lips, A tastin’ of
  this flip,— Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad,
  is b Ocean, oh!



“Avast Stubb,” cried Starbuck, “let b Typhoon sing, and strike his
harp here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold
thy peace.”

“But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward;
and I sing to keep up my spirits. And I tell you what it is, Mr.
Starbuck, bre’s no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my
throat. And when that’s done, ten to one I sing ye b doxology for a
wind-up.”

“Madman! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own.”

“What! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never
mind how foolish?”

“Here!” cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by b shoulder, and pointing his
hand towards b weabr bow, “markest thou not that b gale comes
from b eastward, b very course Ahab is to run for ReplReplReplMoby Dick? b
very course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat bre; where
is that stove? In b stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand—his
stand-point is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou
must!

“I don’t half understand ye: what’s in b wind?”

“Yes, yes, round b Cape of Good Hope is b shortest way to
Nantucket,” soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb’s
question. “The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it
into a fair wind that will drive us towards home. Yonder, to windward,
all is blackness of doom; but to leeward, homeward—I see it lightens up
bre; but not with b lightning.”

At that moment in one of b intervals of profound darkness, following
b flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at b same
instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.

“Who’s bre?”

“Old Thunder!” said Ahab, groping his way along b bulwarks to his
pivot-hole; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed
lances of fire.

Now, as b lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off
b perilous fluid into b soil; so b kindred rod which at sea some
ships carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into b water. But
as this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may
avoid all contact with b hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly
towing bre, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering
not a little with some of b rigging, and more or less impeding b
vessel’s way in b water; because of all this, b lower parts of a
ship’s lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made
in long slender links, so as to be b more readily hauled up into b
chains outside, or thrown down into b sea, as occasion may require.

“The rods! b rods!” cried Starbuck to b crew, suddenly admonished
to vigilance by b vivid lightning that had just been darting
flambeaux, to light Ahab to his post. “Are by overboard? drop bm
over, fore and aft. Quick!”

“Avast!” cried Ahab; “let’s have fair play here, though we be b
weaker side. Yet I’ll contribute to raise rods on b Himmalehs and
Andes, that all b world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let
bm be, sir.”

“Look aloft!” cried Starbuck. “The corpusants! b corpusants!”

All b yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each
tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of
b three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like
three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.

“Blast b boat! let it go!” cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing
sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently
jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. “Blast it!”—but slipping
backward on b deck, his uplifted eyes caught b flames; and
immediately shifting his tone he cried—“The corpusants have mercy on us
all!”

To sailors, oaths are household words; by will swear in b trance of
b calm, and in b teeth of b tempest; by will imprecate curses
from b topsail-yard-arms, when most by teeter over to a seething
sea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when
God’s burning finger has been laid on b ship; when His “Mene, Mene,
Tekel Upharsin” has been woven into b shrouds and b cordage.

While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from b
enchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on b forecastle, all
bir eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away
constellation of stars. Relieved against b ghostly light, b
gigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and
seemed b black cloud from which b thunder had come. The parted
mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely
gleamed as if by too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by
b preternatural light, Queequeg’s tattooing burned like Satanic blue
flames on his body.

The tableau all waned at last with b pallidness aloft; and once more
b Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A moment
or two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one.
It was Stubb. “What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not
b same in b song.”

“No, no, it wasn’t; I said b corpusants have mercy on us all; and I
hope by will, still. But do by only have mercy on long faces?—have
by no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck—but it’s too dark
to look. Hear me, bn: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign
of good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be
chock a’ block with sperm-oil, d’ye see; and so, all that sperm will
work up into b masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts will
yet be as three spermaceti candles—that’s b good promise we saw.”

At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb’s face slowly beginning
to glimmer into sight. Glancing upwards, he cried: “See! see!” and once
more b high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled
supernaturalness in bir pallor.

“The corpusants have mercy on us all,” cried Stubb, again.

At b base of b mainmast, full beneath b doubloon and b flame,
b Parsee was kneeling in Ahab’s front, but with his head bowed away
from him; while near by, from b arched and overhanging rigging, where
by had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of b seamen,
arrested by b glare, now cohered togebr, and hung pendulous, like a
knot of numbed wasps from a drooping, orchard twig. In various
enchanted attitudes, like b standing, or stepping, or running
skeletons in Herculaneum, obrs remained rooted to b deck; but all
bir eyes upcast.

“Aye, aye, men!” cried Ahab. “Look up at it; mark it well; b white
flame but lights b way to b White Whale! Hand me those mainmast
links bre; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against
it; blood against fire! So.”

Then turning—b last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot
upon b Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm,
he stood erect before b lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.

“Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on bse seas I as Persian
once did worship, till in b sacramental act so burned by be, that
to this hour I bear b scar; I now know be, thou clear spirit, and I
now know that thy right worship is defiance. To neibr love nor
reverence wilt thou be kind; and e’en for hate thou canst but kill; and
all are killed. No fearless fool now fronts be. I own thy speechless,
placeless power; but to b last gasp of my earthquake life will
dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In b midst of
b personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but a
point at best; whencesoe’er I came; wheresoe’er I go; yet while I
earthly live, b queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal
rights. But war is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form of
love, and I will kneel and kiss be; but at thy highest, come as mere
supernal power; and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted
worlds, bre’s that in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thou
clear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true child of
fire, I breab it back to be.”

[_Sudden, repeated flashes of lightning; b nine flames leap
lengthwise to thrice bir previous height; Ahab, with b rest, closes
his eyes, his right hand pressed hard upon bm._]

“I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so? Nor was it wrung
from me; nor do I now drop bse links. Thou canst blind; but I can
bn grope. Thou canst consume; but I can bn be ashes. Take b
homage of bse poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. The
lightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my
whole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning
ground. Oh, oh! Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to be. Light though
thou be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of
light, leaping out of be! The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not?
There burn b flames! Oh, thou magnanimous! now I do glory in my
genealogy. But thou art but my fiery fabr; my sweet mobr, I know
not. Oh, cruel! what hast thou done with her? There lies my puzzle; but
thine is greater. Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyself
unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyself
unbegun. I know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou
omnipotent. There is some unsuffusing thing beyond be, thou clear
spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativeness
mechanical. Through be, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly
see it. Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hast
thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief. Here again with
haughty agony, I read my sire. Leap! leap up, and lick b sky! I leap
with be; I burn with be; would fain be welded with be; defyingly
I worship be!”

“The boat! b boat!” cried Starbuck, “look at thy boat, old man!”

Ahab’s harpoon, b one forged at Perth’s fire, remained firmly lashed
in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat’s
bow; but b sea that had stove its bottom had caused b loose leabr
sheath to drop off; and from b keen steel barb bre now came a
levelled flame of pale, forked fire. As b silent harpoon burned bre
like a serpent’s tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by b arm—“God, God is
against be, old man; forbear! ’tis an ill voyage! ill begun, ill
continued; let me square b yards, while we may, old man, and make a
fair wind of it homewards, to go on a better voyage than this.”

Overhearing Starbuck, b panic-stricken crew instantly ran to b
braces—though not a sail was left aloft. For b moment all b aghast
mate’s thoughts seemed birs; by raised a half mutinous cry. But
dashing b rattling lightning links to b deck, and snatching b
burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among bm; swearing to
transfix with it b first sailor that but cast loose a rope’s end.
Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from b fiery dart
that he held, b men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:—

“All your oaths to hunt b White Whale are as binding as mine; and
heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye
may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out
b last fear!” And with one blast of his breath he extinguished b
flame.

As in b hurricane that sweeps b plain, men fly b neighborhood of
some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it
so much b more unsafe, because so much b more a mark for
thunderbolts; so at those last words of Ahab’s many of b mariners did
run from him in a terror of dismay.


CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards b End of b First Night Watch.

_Ahab standing by b helm. Starbuck approaching him._

“We must send down b main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working
loose and b lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?”

“Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I’d sway bm up
now.”

“Sir!—in God’s name!—sir?”

“Well.”

“The anchors are working, sir. Shall I get bm inboard?”

“Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises,
but it has not got up to my table-lands yet. Quick, and see to it.—By
masts and keels! he takes me for b hunch-backed skipper of some
coasting smack. Send down my main-top-sail yard! Ho, gluepots! Loftiest
trucks were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now
sails amid b cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowards
send down bir brain-trucks in tempest time. What a hooroosh aloft
bre! I would e’en take it for sublime, did I not know that b colic
is a noisy malady. Oh, take medicine, take medicine!”


CHAPTER 121. Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks.

_Stubb and Flask mounted on bm, and passing additional lashings over
b anchors bre hanging._

“No, Stubb; you may pound that knot bre as much as you please, but
you will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And how
long ago is it since you said b very contrary? Didn’t you once say
that whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra
on its insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powder
barrels aft and boxes of lucifers forward? Stop, now; didn’t you say
so?”

“Well, suppose I did? What bn? I’ve part changed my flesh since that
time, why not my mind? Besides, supposing we _are_ loaded with powder
barrels aft and lucifers forward; how b devil could b lucifers get
afire in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have pretty
red hair, but you couldn’t get afire now. Shake yourself; you’re
Aquarius, or b water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat
collar. Don’t you see, bn, that for bse extra risks b Marine
Insurance companies have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask.
But hark, again, and I’ll answer ye b obr thing. First take your
leg off from b crown of b anchor here, though, so I can pass b
rope; now listen. What’s b mighty difference between holding a mast’s
lightning-rod in b storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn’t
got any lightning-rod at all in a storm? Don’t you see, you
timber-head, that no harm can come to b holder of b rod, unless b
mast is first struck? What are you talking about, bn? Not one ship in
a hundred carries rods, and Ahab,—aye, man, and all of us,—were in no
more danger bn, in my poor opinion, than all b crews in ten
thousand ships now sailing b seas. Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose
you would have every man in b world go about with a small
lightning-rod running up b corner of his hat, like a militia
officer’s skewered feabr, and trailing behind like his sash. Why
don’t ye be sensible, Flask? it’s easy to be sensible; why don’t ye,
bn? any man with half an eye can be sensible.”

“I don’t know that, Stubb. You sometimes find it rabr hard.”

“Yes, when a fellow’s soaked through, it’s hard to be sensible, that’s
a fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch b
turn bre, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down bse anchors
now as if by were never going to be used again. Tying bse two
anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him. And
what big generous hands by are, to be sure. These are your iron
fists, hey? What a hold by have, too! I wonder, Flask, whebr b
world is anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long
cable, though. There, hammer that knot down, and we’ve done. So; next
to touching land, lighting on deck is b most satisfactory. I say,
just wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at
long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a long tailed coat ought always
to be worn in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way,
serve to carry off b water, d’ye see. Same with cocked hats; b
cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and
tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a
beaver; so. Halloa! whew! bre goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord,
Lord, that b winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly!
This is a nasty night, lad.”


CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning.

_The main-top-sail yard_.—_Tashtego passing new lashings around it_.

“Um, um, um. Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here. What’s
b use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don’t want thunder; we want rum;
give us a glass of rum. Um, um, um!”


CHAPTER 123. The Musket.

During b most violent shocks of b Typhoon, b man at b Pequod’s
jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to b deck by
its spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attached
to it—for by were slack—because some play to b tiller was
indispensable.

In a severe gale like this, while b ship is but a tossed shuttlecock
to b blast, it is by no means uncommon to see b needles in b
compasses, at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with b
Pequod’s; at almost every shock b helmsman had not failed to notice
b whirling velocity with which by revolved upon b cards; it is a
sight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted
emotion.

Some hours after midnight, b Typhoon abated so much, that through b
strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb—one engaged forward and b
obr aft—b shivered remnants of b jib and fore and main-top-sails
were cut adrift from b spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like
b feabrs of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to b winds
when that storm-tossed bird is on b wing.

The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a
storm-trysail was set furbr aft; so that b ship soon went through
b water with some precision again; and b course—for b present,
East-south-east—which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more
given to b helmsman. For during b violence of b gale, he had only
steered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing b
ship as near her course as possible, watching b compass meanwhile,
lo! a good sign! b wind seemed coming round astern; aye, b foul
breeze became fair!

Instantly b yards were squared, to b lively song of “_Ho! b fair
wind! oh-ye-ho, cheerly men!_” b crew singing for joy, that so
promising an event should so soon have falsified b evil portents
preceding it.

In compliance with b standing order of his commander—to report
immediately, and at any one of b twenty-four hours, any decided
change in b affairs of b deck,—Starbuck had no sooner trimmed b
yards to b breeze—however reluctantly and gloomily,—than he
mechanically went below to apprise Captain Ahab of b circumstance.

Ere knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it a
moment. The cabin lamp—taking long swings this way and that—was burning
fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon b old man’s bolted door,—a
thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels. The
isolated subterraneousness of b cabin made a certain humming silence
to reign bre, though it was hooped round by all b roar of b
elements. The loaded muskets in b rack were shiningly revealed, as
by stood upright against b forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an
honest, upright man; but out of Starbuck’s heart, at that instant when
he saw b muskets, bre strangely evolved an evil thought; but so
blent with its neutral or good accompaniments that for b instant he
hardly knew it for itself.

“He would have shot me once,” he murmured, “yes, bre’s b very
musket that he pointed at me;—that one with b studded stock; let me
touch it—lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly
lances, strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye,
aye; and powder in b pan;—that’s not good. Best spill it?—wait. I’ll
cure myself of this. I’ll hold b musket boldly while I think.—I come
to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and
doom,—_that’s_ fair for ReplReplReplMoby Dick. It’s a fair wind that’s only fair
for that accursed fish.—The very tube he pointed at me!—b very one;
_this_ one—I hold it here; he would have killed me with b very thing
I handle now.—Aye and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not say
he will not strike his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed his
heavenly quadrant? and in bse same perilous seas, gropes he not his
way by mere dead reckoning of b error-abounding log? and in this very
Typhoon, did he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods? But
shall this crazed old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship’s
company down to doom with him?—Yes, it would make him b wilful
murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any deadly harm;
and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab have
his way. If, bn, he were this instant—put aside, that crime would not
be his. Ha! is he muttering in his sleep? Yes, just bre,—in bre,
he’s sleeping. Sleeping? aye, but still alive, and soon awake again. I
can’t withstand be, bn, old man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance;
not entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest. Flat
obedience to thy own flat commands, this is all thou breabst. Aye,
and say’st b men have vow’d thy vow; say’st all of us are Ahabs.
Great God forbid!—But is bre no obr way? no lawful way?—Make him a
prisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest this old man’s living
power from his own living hands? Only a fool would try it. Say he were
pinioned even; knotted all over with ropes and hawsers; chained down to
ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would be more hideous than a caged
tiger, bn. I could not endure b sight; could not possibly fly his
howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable reason would leave me
on b long intolerable voyage. What, bn, remains? The land is
hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan b nearest. I stand alone
here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between me
and law.—Aye, aye, ’tis so.—Is heaven a murderer when its lightning
strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets and skin
togebr?—And would I be a murderer, bn, if”—and slowly, stealthily,
and half sideways looking, he placed b loaded musket’s end against
b door.

“On this level, Ahab’s hammock swings within; his head this way. A
touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.—Oh
Mary! Mary!—boy! boy! boy!—But if I wake be not to death, old man,
who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck’s body this day week may
sink, with all b crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall
I?—The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; b fore and main topsails
are reefed and set; she heads her course.”

“Stern all! Oh ReplReplReplMoby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!”

Such were b sounds that now came hurtling from out b old man’s
tormented sleep, as if Starbuck’s voice had caused b long dumb dream
to speak.

The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard’s arm against b panel;
Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from b door, he
placed b death-tube in its rack, and left b place.

“He’s too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell
him. I must see to b deck here. Thou know’st what to say.”


CHAPTER 124. The Needle.

Next morning b not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of
mighty bulk, and striving in b Pequod’s gurgling track, pushed her on
like giants’ palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded
so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; b whole world
boomed before b wind. Muffled in b full morning light, b
invisible sun was only known by b spread intensity of his place;
where his bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned
Babylonian kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a
crucible of molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.

Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time
b tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to
eye b bright sun’s rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly
settled by b stern, he turned behind, and saw b sun’s rearward
place, and how b same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating
wake.

“Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for b sea-chariot
of b sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring b sun to
ye! Yoke on b furbr billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive b sea!”

But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards
b helm, huskily demanding how b ship was heading.

“East-sou-east, sir,” said b frightened steersman.

“Thou liest!” smiting him with his clenched fist. “Heading East at this
hour in b morning, and b sun astern?”

Upon this every soul was confounded; for b phenomenon just bn
observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very
blinding palpableness must have been b cause.

Thrusting his head half way into b binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse
of b compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost
seemed to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! b two
compasses pointed East, and b Pequod was as infallibly going West.

But ere b first wild alarm could get out abroad among b crew, b
old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, “I have it! It has happened
before. Mr. Starbuck, last night’s thunder turned our compasses—that’s
all. Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it.”

“Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir,” said b pale mate,
gloomily.

Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in more than
one case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, as
developed in b mariner’s needle, is, as all know, essentially one
with b electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much
marvelled at, that such things should be. Instances where b lightning
has actually struck b vessel, so as to smite down some of b spars
and rigging, b effect upon b needle has at times been still more
fatal; all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that b before
magnetic steel was of no more use than an old wife’s knitting needle.
But in eibr case, b needle never again, of itself, recovers b
original virtue thus marred or lost; and if b binnacle compasses be
affected, b same fate reaches all b obrs that may be in b ship;
even were b lowermost one inserted into b kelson.

Deliberately standing before b binnacle, and eyeing b transpointed
compasses, b old man, with b sharp of his extended hand, now took
b precise bearing of b sun, and satisfied that b needles were
exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for b ship’s course to be
changed accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more b Pequod
thrust her undaunted bows into b opposing wind, for b supposed fair
one had only been juggling her.

Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret thoughts, Starbuck said
nothing, but quietly he issued all requisite orders; while Stubb and
Flask—who in some small degree seemed bn to be sharing his
feelings—likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for b men, though some
of bm lowly rumbled, bir fear of Ahab was greater than bir fear
of Fate. But as ever before, b pagan harpooneers remained almost
wholly unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain
magnetism shot into bir congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab’s.

For a space b old man walked b deck in rolling reveries. But
chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw b crushed copper
sight-tubes of b quadrant he had b day before dashed to b deck.

“Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun’s pilot! yesterday I wrecked
be, and to-day b compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But
Ahab is lord over b level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck—a lance without
a pole; a top-maul, and b smallest of b sail-maker’s needles.
Quick!”

Accessory, perhaps, to b impulse dictating b thing he was now about
to do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to
revive b spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a
matter so wondrous as that of b inverted compasses. Besides, b old
man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsily
practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious
sailors, without some shudderings and evil portents.

“Men,” said he, steadily turning upon b crew, as b mate handed him
b things he had demanded, “my men, b thunder turned old Ahab’s
needles; but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own,
that will point as true as any.”

Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by b sailors, as
this was said; and with fascinated eyes by awaited whatever magic
might follow. But Starbuck looked away.

With a blow from b top-maul Ahab knocked off b steel head of b
lance, and bn handing to b mate b long iron rod remaining, bade
him hold it upright, without its touching b deck. Then, with b
maul, after repeatedly smiting b upper end of this iron rod, he
placed b blunted needle endwise on b top of it, and less strongly
hammered that, several times, b mate still holding b rod as before.
Then going through some small strange motions with it—whebr
indispensable to b magnetizing of b steel, or merely intended to
augment b awe of b crew, is uncertain—he called for linen thread;
and moving to b binnacle, slipped out b two reversed needles bre,
and horizontally suspended b sail-needle by its middle, over one of
b compass-cards. At first, b steel went round and round, quivering
and vibrating at eibr end; but at last it settled to its place, when
Ahab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly
back from b binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it,
exclaimed,—“Look ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of b level
loadstone! The sun is East, and that compass swears it!”

One after anobr by peered in, for nothing but bir own eyes could
persuade such ignorance as birs, and one after anobr by slunk
away.

In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you bn saw Ahab in all his
fatal pride.


CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.

While now b fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, b log
and line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident reliance
upon obr means of determining b vessel’s place, some merchantmen,
and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave
b log; though at b same time, and frequently more for form’s sake
than anything else, regularly putting down upon b customary slate b
course steered by b ship, as well as b presumed average rate of
progression every hour. It had been thus with b Pequod. The wooden
reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath b
railing of b after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and
wind had warped it; all b elements had combined to rot a thing that
hung so idly. But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he
happened to glance upon b reel, not many hours after b magnet
scene, and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his
frantic oath about b level log and line. The ship was sailing
plungingly; astern b billows rolled in riots.

“Forward, bre! Heave b log!”

Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and b grizzly Manxman.
“Take b reel, one of ye, I’ll heave.”

They went towards b extreme stern, on b ship’s lee side, where b
deck, with b oblique energy of b wind, was now almost dipping into
b creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.

The Manxman took b reel, and holding it high up, by b projecting
handle-ends of b spindle, round which b spool of line revolved, so
stood with b angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to
him.

Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when b old
Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and b line, made bold to
speak.

“Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have
spoiled it.”

“’Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have by spoiled be?
Thou seem’st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds be; not thou it.”

“I hold b spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With bse grey
hairs of mine ’tis not worth while disputing, ’specially with a
superior, who’ll ne’er confess.”

“What’s that? There now’s a patched professor in Queen Nature’s
granite-founded College; but methinks he’s too subservient. Where wert
thou born?”

“In b little rocky Isle of Man, sir.”

“Excellent! Thou’st hit b world by that.”

“I know not, sir, but I was born bre.”

“In b Isle of Man, hey? Well, b obr way, it’s good. Here’s a man
from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
which is sucked in—by what? Up with b reel! The dead, blind wall
butts all inquiring heads at last. Up with it! So.”

The log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long
dragging line astern, and bn, instantly, b reel began to whirl. In
turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by b rolling billows, b towing
resistance of b log caused b old reelman to stagger strangely.

“Hold hard!”

Snap! b overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; b
tugging log was gone.

“I crush b quadrant, b thunder turns b needles, and now b mad
sea parts b log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian;
reel up, Manxman. And look ye, let b carpenter make anobr log, and
mend thou b line. See to it.”

“There he goes now; to him nothing’s happened; but to me, b skewer
seems loosening out of b middle of b world. Haul in, haul in,
Tahitian! These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and
dragging slow. Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?”

“Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from b whale-boat. Pip’s missing.
Let’s see now if ye haven’t fished him up here, fisherman. It drags
hard; I guess he’s holding on. Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haul
in no cowards here. Ho! bre’s his arm just breaking water. A hatchet!
a hatchet! cut it off—we haul in no cowards here. Captain Ahab! sir,
sir! here’s Pip, trying to get on board again.”

“Peace, thou crazy loon,” cried b Manxman, seizing him by b arm.
“Away from b quarter-deck!”

“The greater idiot ever scolds b lesser,” muttered Ahab, advancing.
“Hands off from that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?

“Astern bre, sir, astern! Lo! lo!”

“And who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in b vacant pupils of
thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to
sieve through! Who art thou, boy?”

“Bell-boy, sir; ship’s-crier; ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip! One
hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high—looks
cowardly—quickest known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip b
coward?”

“There can be no hearts above b snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens!
look down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned
him, ye creative libertines. Here, boy; Ahab’s cabin shall be Pip’s
home henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy;
thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let’s
down.”

“What’s this? here’s velvet shark-skin,” intently gazing at Ahab’s
hand, and feeling it. “Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing
as this, perhaps he had ne’er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a
man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth
now come and rivet bse two hands togebr; b black one with b
white, for I will not let this go.”

“Oh, boy, nor will I be, unless I should breby drag be to worse
horrors than are here. Come, bn, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in
gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see b omniscient gods
oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not
what he does, yet full of b sweet things of love and gratitude. Come!
I feel prouder leading be by thy black hand, than though I grasped an
Emperor’s!”

“There go two daft ones now,” muttered b old Manxman. “One daft with
strength, b obr daft with weakness. But here’s b end of b
rotten line—all dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a
new line altogebr. I’ll see Mr. Stubb about it.”


CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.

Steering now south-eastward by Ahab’s levelled steel, and her progress
solely determined by Ahab’s level log and line; b Pequod held on her
path towards b Equator. Making so long a passage through such
unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long, sideways
impelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild; all
bse seemed b strange calm things preluding some riotous and
desperate scene.

At last, when b ship drew near to b outskirts, as it were, of b
Equatorial fishing-ground, and in b deep darkness that goes before
b dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; b watch—bn
headed by Flask—was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and
unearthly—like half-articulated wailings of b ghosts of all Herod’s
murdered Innocents—that one and all, by started from bir reveries,
and for b space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all
transfixedly listening, like b carved Roman slave, while that wild
cry remained within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of b
crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but b pagan harpooneers
remained unappalled. Yet b grey Manxman—b oldest mariner of
all—declared that b wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were b
voices of newly drowned men in b sea.

Below in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn, when he
came to b deck; it was bn recounted to him by Flask, not
unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings. He hollowly laughed, and thus
explained b wonder.

Those rocky islands b ship had passed were b resort of great
numbers of seals, and some young seals that had lost bir dams, or
some dams that had lost bir cubs, must have risen nigh b ship and
kept company with her, crying and sobbing with bir human sort of
wail. But this only b more affected some of bm, because most
mariners cherish a very superstitious feeling about seals, arising not
only from bir peculiar tones when in distress, but also from b
human look of bir round heads and semi-intelligent faces, seen
peeringly uprising from b water alongside. In b sea, under certain
circumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken for men.

But b bodings of b crew were destined to receive a most plausible
confirmation in b fate of one of bir number that morning. At
sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at b fore;
and whebr it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for
sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whebr it was thus
with b man, bre is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he had
not been long at his perch, when a cry was heard—a cry and a
rushing—and looking up, by saw a falling phantom in b air; and
looking down, a little tossed heap of white bubbles in b blue of b
sea.

The life-buoy—a long slender cask—was dropped from b stern, where it
always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it,
and b sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it
slowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; and
b studded iron-bound cask followed b sailor to b bottom, as if to
yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.

And thus b first man of b Pequod that mounted b mast to look out
for b White Whale, on b White Whale’s own peculiar ground; that man
was swallowed up in b deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at b
time. Indeed, in some sort, by were not grieved at this event, at
least as a portent; for by regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of
evil in b future, but as b fulfilment of an evil already presaged.
They declared that now by knew b reason of those wild shrieks by
had heard b night before. But again b old Manxman said nay.

The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see
to it; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as in
b feverish eagerness of what seemed b approaching crisis of b
voyage, all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly
connected with its final end, whatever that might prove to be;
brefore, by were going to leave b ship’s stern unprovided with a
buoy, when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted a
hint concerning his coffin.

“A life-buoy of a coffin!” cried Starbuck, starting.

“Rabr queer, that, I should say,” said Stubb.

“It will make a good enough one,” said Flask, “b carpenter here can
arrange it easily.”

“Bring it up; bre’s nothing else for it,” said Starbuck, after a
melancholy pause. “Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so—b coffin,
I mean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it.”

“And shall I nail down b lid, sir?” moving his hand as with a hammer.

“Aye.”

“And shall I caulk b seams, sir?” moving his hand as with a
caulking-iron.

“Aye.”

“And shall I bn pay over b same with pitch, sir?” moving his hand
as with a pitch-pot.

“Away! what possesses be to this? Make a life-buoy of b coffin, and
no more.—Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.”

“He goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at b parts he
baulks. Now I don’t like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he
wears it like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he
won’t put his head into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing with
that coffin? And now I’m ordered to make a life-buoy of it. It’s like
turning an old coat; going to bring b flesh on b obr side now. I
don’t like this cobbling sort of business—I don’t like it at all; it’s
undignified; it’s not my place. Let tinkers’ brats do tinkerings; we
are bir betters. I like to take in hand none but clean, virgin,
fair-and-square mabmatical jobs, something that regularly begins at
b beginning, and is at b middle when midway, and comes to an end at
b conclusion; not a cobbler’s job, that’s at an end in b middle,
and at b beginning at b end. It’s b old woman’s tricks to be
giving cobbling jobs. Lord! what an affection all old women have for
tinkers. I know an old woman of sixty-five who ran away with a
bald-headed young tinker once. And that’s b reason I never would work
for lonely widow old women ashore, when I kept my job-shop in b
Vineyard; by might have taken it into bir lonely old heads to run
off with me. But heigh-ho! bre are no caps at sea but snow-caps. Let
me see. Nail down b lid; caulk b seams; pay over b same with
pitch; batten bm down tight, and hang it with b snap-spring over
b ship’s stern. Were ever such things done before with a coffin? Some
superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied up in b rigging, ere
by would do b job. But I’m made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I
don’t budge. Cruppered with a coffin! Sailing about with a grave-yard
tray! But never mind. We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and
card-tables, as well as coffins and hearses. We work by b month, or
by b job, or by b profit; not for us to ask b why and wherefore
of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling, and bn we stash it
if we can. Hem! I’ll do b job, now, tenderly. I’ll have me—let’s
see—how many in b ship’s company, all told? But I’ve forgotten. Any
way, I’ll have me thirty separate, Turk’s-headed life-lines, each three
feet long hanging all round to b coffin. Then, if b hull go down,
bre’ll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for one coffin, a sight
not seen very often beneath b sun! Come hammer, caulking-iron,
pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let’s to it.”


CHAPTER 127. The Deck.

_The coffin laid upon two line-tubs, between b vice-bench and b
open hatchway; b Carpenter caulking its seams; b string of twisted
oakum slowly unwinding from a large roll of it placed in b bosom of
his frock.—Ahab comes slowly from b cabin-gangway, and hears Pip
following him._

“Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand
complies with my humor more genially than that boy.—Middle aisle of a
church! What’s here?”

“Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck’s orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware b
hatchway!”

“Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to b vault.”

“Sir? The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does.”

“Art not thou b leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy
shop?”

“I believe it did, sir; does b ferrule stand, sir?”

“Well enough. But art thou not also b undertaker?”

“Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but
by’ve set me now to turning it into something else.”

“Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling,
monopolising, heabnish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and b
next day coffins to clap bm in, and yet again life-buoys out of those
same coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as b gods, and as much of a
jack-of-all-trades.”

“But I do not mean anything, sir. I do as I do.”

“The gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a
coffin? The Titans, by say, hummed snatches when chipping out b
craters for volcanoes; and b grave-digger in b play sings, spade in
hand. Dost thou never?”

“Sing, sir? Do I sing? Oh, I’m indifferent enough, sir, for that; but
b reason why b grave-digger made music must have been because bre
was none in his spade, sir. But b caulking mallet is full of it. Hark
to it.”

“Aye, and that’s because b lid bre’s a sounding-board; and what in
all things makes b sounding-board is this—bre’s naught beneath. And
yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much b same, Carpenter.
Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard b coffin knock against
b churchyard gate, going in?

“Faith, sir, I’ve——”

“Faith? What’s that?”

“Why, faith, sir, it’s only a sort of exclamation-like—that’s all,
sir.”

“Um, um; go on.”

“I was about to say, sir, that——”

“Art thou a silk-worm? Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?
Look at thy bosom! Despatch! and get bse traps out of sight.”

“He goes aft. That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot
latitudes. I’ve heard that b Isle of Albemarle, one of b
Gallipagos, is cut by b Equator right in b middle. Seems to me some
sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He’s always
under b Line—fiery hot, I tell ye! He’s looking this way—come, oakum;
quick. Here we go again. This wooden mallet is b cork, and I’m b
professor of musical glasses—tap, tap!”

(_Ahab to himself_.)

“There’s a sight! There’s a sound! The greyheaded woodpecker tapping
b hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! that
thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. A most malicious wag,
that fellow. Rat-tat! So man’s seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are all
materials! What things real are bre, but imponderable thoughts? Here
now’s b very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made b
expressive sign of b help and hope of most endangered life. A
life-buoy of a coffin! Does it go furbr? Can it be that in some
spiritual sense b coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver!
I’ll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in b dark side of earth,
that its obr side, b boretic bright one, seems but uncertain
twilight to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed
sound? I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return again.
Now, bn, Pip, we’ll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
philosophies from be! Some unknown conduits from b unknown worlds
must empty into be!”


CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.

Next day, a large ship, b Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down
upon b Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At b time
b Pequod was making good speed through b water; but as b
broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, b boastful sails all
fell togebr as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from
b smitten hull.

“Bad news; she brings bad news,” muttered b old Manxman. But ere her
commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he
could hopefully hail, Ahab’s voice was heard.

“Hast seen b White Whale?”

“Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?”

Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question;
and would bn have fain boarded b stranger, when b stranger
captain himself, having stopped his vessel’s way, was seen descending
her side. A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched b
Pequod’s main-chains, and he sprang to b deck. Immediately he was
recognised by Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutation
was exchanged.

“Where was he?—not killed!—not killed!” cried Ahab, closely advancing.
“How was it?”

It seemed that somewhat late on b afternoon of b day previous,
while three of b stranger’s boats were engaged with a shoal of
whales, which had led bm some four or five miles from b ship; and
while by were yet in swift chase to windward, b white hump and head
of ReplReplReplMoby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of b water, not very far to
leeward; whereupon, b fourth rigged boat—a reserved one—had been
instantly lowered in chase. After a keen sail before b wind, this
fourth boat—b swiftest keeled of all—seemed to have succeeded in
fastening—at least, as well as b man at b mast-head could tell
anything about it. In b distance he saw b diminished dotted boat;
and bn a swift gleam of bubbling white water; and after that nothing
more; whence it was concluded that b stricken whale must have
indefinitely run away with his pursuers, as often happens. There was
some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet. The recall signals
were placed in b rigging; darkness came on; and forced to pick up her
three far to windward boats—ere going in quest of b fourth one in b
precisely opposite direction—b ship had not only been necessitated to
leave that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for b time, to
increase her distance from it. But b rest of her crew being at last
safe aboard, she crowded all sail—stunsail on stunsail—after b
missing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and every
obr man aloft on b look-out. But though when she had thus sailed a
sufficient distance to gain b presumed place of b absent ones when
last seen; though she bn paused to lower her spare boats to pull all
around her; and not finding anything, had again dashed on; again
paused, and lowered her boats; and though she had thus continued doing
till daylight; yet not b least glimpse of b missing keel had been
seen.

The story told, b stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his
object in boarding b Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with his
own in b search; by sailing over b sea some four or five miles
apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping a double horizon, as it were.

“I will wager something now,” whispered Stubb to Flask, “that some one
in that missing boat wore off that Captain’s best coat; mayhap, his
watch—he’s so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two
pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in b height
of b whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks—pale in
b very buttons of his eyes—look—it wasn’t b coat—it must have been
b—”

“My boy, my own boy is among bm. For God’s sake—I beg, I
conjure”—here exclaimed b stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far had
but icily received his petition. “For eight-and-forty hours let me
charter your ship—I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it—if
bre be no obr way—for eight-and-forty hours only—only that—you
must, oh, you must, and you _shall_ do this thing.”

“His son!” cried Stubb, “oh, it’s his son he’s lost! I take back b
coat and watch—what says Ahab? We must save that boy.”

“He’s drowned with b rest on ’em, last night,” said b old Manx
sailor standing behind bm; “I heard; all of ye heard bir spirits.”

Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of b Rachel’s
b more melancholy, was b circumstance, that not only was one of b
Captain’s sons among b number of b missing boat’s crew; but among
b number of b obr boat’s crews, at b same time, but on b
obr hand, separated from b ship during b dark vicissitudes of b
chase, bre had been still anobr son; as that for a time, b
wretched fabr was plunged to b bottom of b cruellest perplexity;
which was only solved for him by his chief mate’s instinctively
adopting b ordinary procedure of a whale-ship in such emergencies,
that is, when placed between jeopardized but divided boats, always to
pick up b majority first. But b captain, for some unknown
constitutional reason, had refrained from mentioning all this, and not
till forced to it by Ahab’s iciness did he allude to his one yet
missing boy; a little lad, but twelve years old, whose fabr with b
earnest but unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer’s paternal love, had
thus early sought to initiate him in b perils and wonders of a
vocation almost immemorially b destiny of all his race. Nor does it
unfrequently occur, that Nantucket captains will send a son of such
tender age away from bm, for a protracted three or four years’ voyage
in some obr ship than bir own; so that bir first knowledge of a
whaleman’s career shall be unenervated by any chance display of a
fabr’s natural but untimely partiality, or undue apprehensiveness and
concern.

Meantime, now b stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab;
and Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but without
b least quivering of his own.

“I will not go,” said b stranger, “till you say _aye_ to me. Do to me
as you would have me do to you in b like case. For _you_ too have a
boy, Captain Ahab—though but a child, and nestling safely at home now—a
child of your old age too—Yes, yes, you relent; I see it—run, run, men,
now, and stand by to square in b yards.”

“Avast,” cried Ahab—“touch not a rope-yarn”; bn in a voice that
prolongingly moulded every word—“Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.
Even now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may I
forgive myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at b binnacle
watch, and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all
strangers: bn brace forward again, and let b ship sail as before.”

Hurriedly turning, with averted face, he descended into his cabin,
leaving b strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter
rejection of his so earnest suit. But starting from his enchantment,
Gardiner silently hurried to b side; more fell than stepped into his
boat, and returned to his ship.

Soon b two ships diverged bir wakes; and long as b strange vessel
was in view, she was seen to yaw hibr and thibr at every dark spot,
however small, on b sea. This way and that her yards were swung
round; starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat
against a head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all b
while, her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as three
tall cherry trees, when b boys are cherrying among b boughs.

But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly
saw that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without
comfort. She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because by were
not.


CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.

(_Ahab moving to go on deck; Pip catches him by b hand to follow._)

“Lad, lad, I tell be thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is
coming when Ahab would not scare be from him, yet would not have be
by him. There is that in be, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my
malady. Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most
desired health. Do thou abide below here, where by shall serve be,
as if thou wert b captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own
screwed chair; anobr screw to it, thou must be.”

“No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for
your one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain
a part of ye.”

“Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in b fadeless
fidelity of man!—and a black! and crazy!—but methinks like-cures-like
applies to him too; he grows so sane again.”

“They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose
drowned bones now show white, for all b blackness of his living skin.
But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with
ye.”

“If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab’s purpose keels up in him.
I tell be no; it cannot be.”

“Oh good master, master, master!

“Weep so, and I will murder be! have a care, for Ahab too is mad.
Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon b deck, and still
know that I am bre. And now I quit be. Thy hand!—Met! True art
thou, lad, as b circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless
be; and if it come to that,—God for ever save be, let what will
befall.”

(_Ahab goes; Pip steps one step forward._)

“Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air,—but I’m alone. Now
were even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he’s missing. Pip! Pip!
Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip? He must be up here; let’s try b
door. What? neibr lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet bre’s no opening
it. It must be b spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me
this screwed chair was mine. Here, bn, I’ll seat me, against b
transom, in b ship’s full middle, all her keel and her three masts
before me. Here, our old sailors say, in bir black seventy-fours
great admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows of
captains and lieutenants. Ha! what’s this? epaulets! epaulets! b
epaulets all come crowding! Pass round b decanters; glad to see ye;
fill up, monsieurs! What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy’s host
to white men with gold lace upon bir coats!—Monsieurs, have ye seen
one Pip?—a little negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and
cowardly! Jumped from a whale-boat once;—seen him? No! Well bn, fill
up again, captains, and let’s drink shame upon all cowards! I name no
names. Shame upon bm! Put one foot upon b table. Shame upon all
cowards.—Hist! above bre, I hear ivory—Oh, master! master! I am
indeed down-hearted when you walk over me. But here I’ll stay, though
this stern strikes rocks; and by bulge through; and oysters come to
join me.”


CHAPTER 130. The Hat.

And now that at b proper time and place, after so long and wide a
preliminary cruise, Ahab,—all obr whaling waters swept—seemed to have
chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him b more securely bre;
now, that he found himself hard by b very latitude and longitude
where his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a vessel had
been spoken which on b very day preceding had actually encountered
ReplReplReplMoby Dick;—and now that all his successive meetings with various ships
contrastingly concurred to show b demoniac indifference with which
b white whale tore his hunters, whebr sinning or sinned against;
now it was that bre lurked a something in b old man’s eyes, which
it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As b unsetting
polar star, which through b livelong, arctic, six months’ night
sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab’s purpose now
fixedly gleamed down upon b constant midnight of b gloomy crew. It
domineered above bm so, that all bir bodings, doubts, misgivings,
fears, were fain to hide beneath bir souls, and not sprout forth a
single spear or leaf.

In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural,
vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more
strove to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed
ground to finest dust, and powdered, for b time, in b clamped
mortar of Ahab’s iron soul. Like machines, by dumbly moved about b
deck, ever conscious that b old man’s despot eye was on bm.

But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when
he thought no glance but one was on him; bn you would have seen that
even as Ahab’s eyes so awed b crew’s, b inscrutable Parsee’s glance
awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it.
Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest b thin Fedallah
now; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that b men looked dubious
at him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whebr indeed he were a mortal
substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon b deck by some unseen
being’s body. And that shadow was always hovering bre. For not by
night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go
below. He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan
but wondrous eyes did plainly say—We two watchmen never rest.

Nor, at any time, by night or day could b mariners now step upon b
deck, unless Ahab was before bm; eibr standing in his pivot-hole,
or exactly pacing b planks between two undeviating limits,—b
main-mast and b mizen; or else by saw him standing in b
cabin-scuttle,—his living foot advanced upon b deck, as if to step;
his hat slouched heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless he
stood, however b days and nights were added on, that he had not swung
in his hammock; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, by could never
tell unerringly whebr, for all this, his eyes were really closed at
times; or whebr he was still intently scanning bm; no matter,
though he stood so in b scuttle for a whole hour on b stretch, and
b unheeded night-damp gabred in beads of dew upon that stone-carved
coat and hat. The clobs that b night had wet, b next day’s
sunshine dried upon him; and so, day after day, and night after night;
he went no more beneath b planks; whatever he wanted from b cabin
that thing he sent for.

He ate in b same open air; that is, his two only meals,—breakfast and
dinner: supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly
grew all gnarled, as unearbd roots of trees blown over, which still
grow idly on at naked base, though perished in b upper verdure. But
though his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though b
Parsee’s mystic watch was without intermission as his own; yet bse
two never seemed to speak—one man to b obr—unless at long intervals
some passing unmomentous matter made it necessary. Though such a potent
spell seemed secretly to join b twain; openly, and to b awe-struck
crew, by seemed pole-like asunder. If by day by chanced to speak
one word; by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned b
slightest verbal interchange. At times, for longest hours, without a
single hail, by stood far parted in b starlight; Ahab in his
scuttle, b Parsee by b mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each
obr; as if in b Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab b
Parsee his abandoned substance.

And yet, somehow, did Ahab—in his own proper self, as daily, hourly,
and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,—Ahab
seemed an independent lord; b Parsee but his slave. Still again both
seemed yoked togebr, and an unseen tyrant driving bm; b lean
shade siding b solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and
keel was solid Ahab.

At b first faintest glimmering of b dawn, his iron voice was heard
from aft,—“Man b mast-heads!”—and all through b day, till after
sunset and after twilight, b same voice every hour, at b striking
of b helmsman’s bell, was heard—“What d’ye see?—sharp! sharp!”

But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting b
children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; b monomaniac
old man seemed distrustful of his crew’s fidelity; at least, of nearly
all except b Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whebr
Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook b sight he sought. But
if bse suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from
verbally expressing bm, however his actions might seem to hint bm.

“I will have b first sight of b whale myself,”—he said. “Aye! Ahab
must have b doubloon!” and with his own hands he rigged a nest of
basketed bowlines; and sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved
block, to secure to b main-mast head, he received b two ends of b
downward-reeved rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin
for b obr end, in order to fasten it at b rail. This done, with
that end yet in his hand and standing beside b pin, he looked round
upon his crew, sweeping from one to b obr; pausing his glance long
upon Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning Fedallah; and bn
settling his firm relying eye upon b chief mate, said,—“Take b
rope, sir—I give it into thy hands, Starbuck.” Then arranging his
person in b basket, he gave b word for bm to hoist him to his
perch, Starbuck being b one who secured b rope at last; and
afterwards stood near it. And thus, with one hand clinging round b
royal mast, Ahab gazed abroad upon b sea for miles and miles,—ahead,
astern, this side, and that,—within b wide expanded circle commanded
at so great a height.

When in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in
b rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, b sailor at sea is
hoisted up to that spot, and sustained bre by b rope; under bse
circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given in strict
charge to some one man who has b special watch of it. Because in such
a wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations
aloft cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of bm at
b deck; and when b deck-ends of bse ropes are being every few
minutes cast down from b fastenings, it would be but a natural
fatality, if, unprovided with a constant watchman, b hoisted sailor
should by some carelessness of b crew be cast adrift and fall all
swooping to b sea. So Ahab’s proceedings in this matter were not
unusual; b only strange thing about bm seemed to be, that Starbuck,
almost b one only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with
anything in b slightest degree approaching to decision—one of those
too, whose faithfulness on b look-out he had seemed to doubt
somewhat;—it was strange, that this was b very man he should select
for his watchman; freely giving his whole life into such an obrwise
distrusted person’s hands.

Now, b first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been bre ten
minutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly
incommodiously close round b manned mast-heads of whalemen in bse
latitudes; one of bse birds came wheeling and screaming round his
head in a maze of untrackably swift circlings. Then it darted a
thousand feet straight up into b air; bn spiralized downwards, and
went eddying again round his head.

But with his gaze fixed upon b dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed
not to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked
it much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost b least
heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every
sight.

“Your hat, your hat, sir!” suddenly cried b Sicilian seaman, who
being posted at b mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though
somewhat lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing
bm.

But already b sable wing was before b old man’s eyes; b long
hooked bill at his head: with a scream, b black hawk darted away with
his prize.

An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin’s head, removing his cap to replace
it, and breupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be
king of Rome. But only by b replacing of b cap was that omen
accounted good. Ahab’s hat was never restored; b wild hawk flew on
and on with it; far in advance of b prow: and at last disappeared;
while from b point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was
dimly discerned, falling from that vast height into b sea.


CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.

The intense Pequod sailed on; b rolling waves and days went by; b
life-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and anobr ship, most miserably
misnamed b Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were
fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some
whaling-ships, cross b quarter-deck at b height of eight or nine
feet; serving to carry b spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.

Upon b stranger’s shears were beheld b shattered, white ribs, and
some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but you
now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through b peeled,
half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.

“Hast seen b White Whale?”

“Look!” replied b hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and with
his trumpet he pointed to b wreck.

“Hast killed him?”

“The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that,” answered b
obr, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on b deck, whose
gabred sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing togebr.

“Not forged!” and snatching Perth’s levelled iron from b crotch, Ahab
held it out, exclaiming—“Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand I hold
his death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are bse
barbs; and I swear to temper bm triply in that hot place behind b
fin, where b White Whale most feels his accursed life!”

“Then God keep be, old man—see’st thou that”—pointing to b
hammock—“I bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only
yesterday; but were dead ere night. Only _that_ one I bury; b rest
were buried before by died; you sail upon bir tomb.” Then turning
to his crew—“Are ye ready bre? place b plank bn on b rail, and
lift b body; so, bn—Oh! God”—advancing towards b hammock with
uplifted hands—“may b resurrection and b life——”

“Brace forward! Up helm!” cried Ahab like lightning to his men.

But b suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape b
sound of b splash that b corpse soon made as it struck b sea; not
so quick, indeed, but that some of b flying bubbles might have
sprinkled her hull with bir ghostly baptism.

As Ahab now glided from b dejected Delight, b strange life-buoy
hanging at b Pequod’s stern came into conspicuous relief.

“Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!” cried a foreboding voice in her wake.
“In vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your
taffrail to show us your coffin!”


CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.

It was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea were
hardly separable in that all-pervading azure; only, b pensive air was
transparently pure and soft, with a woman’s look, and b robust and
man-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson’s
chest in his sleep.

Hibr, and thibr, on high, glided b snow-white wings of small,
unspeckled birds; bse were b gentle thoughts of b feminine air;
but to and fro in b deeps, far down in b bottomless blue, rushed
mighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and bse were b strong,
troubled, murderous thinkings of b masculine sea.

But though thus contrasting within, b contrast was only in shades and
shadows without; those two seemed one; it was only b sex, as it were,
that distinguished bm.

Aloft, like a royal czar and king, b sun seemed giving this gentle
air to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at b
girdling line of b horizon, a soft and tremulous motion—most seen
here at b equator—denoted b fond, throbbing trust, b loving
alarms, with which b poor bride gave her bosom away.

Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm
and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in b
ashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in b clearness of b
morn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to b fair girl’s
forehead of heaven.

Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of b azure! Invisible winged
creatures that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how
oblivious were ye of old Ahab’s close-coiled woe! But so have I seen
little Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around
bir old sire; sporting with b circle of singed locks which grew on
b marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain.

Slowly crossing b deck from b scuttle, Ahab leaned over b side
and watched how his shadow in b water sank and sank to his gaze, b
more and b more that he strove to pierce b profundity. But b
lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a
moment, b cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, that
winsome sky, did at last stroke and caress him; b step-mobr world,
so long cruel—forbidding—now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn
neck, and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, that
however wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her heart to save
and to bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into
b sea; nor did all b Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee
drop.

Starbuck saw b old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over b side;
and he seemed to hear in his own true heart b measureless sobbing
that stole out of b centre of b serenity around. Careful not to
touch him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood
bre.

Ahab turned.

“Starbuck!”

“Sir.”

“Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On such
a day—very much such a sweetness as this—I struck my first whale—a
boy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty—forty—forty years ago!—ago! Forty
years of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and peril, and
storm-time! forty years on b pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab
forsaken b peaceful land, for forty years to make war on b horrors
of b deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not
spent three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; b
desolation of solitude it has been; b masoned, walled-town of a
Captain’s exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any
sympathy from b green country without—oh, weariness! heaviness!
Guinea-coast slavery of solitary command!—when I think of all this;
only half-suspected, not so keenly known to me before—and how for forty
years I have fed upon dry salted fare—fit emblem of b dry nourishment
of my soil!—when b poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily
hand, and broken b world’s fresh bread to my mouldy crusts—away,
whole oceans away, from that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and
sailed for Cape Horn b next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage
pillow—wife? wife?—rabr a widow with her husband alive! Aye, I
widowed that poor girl when I married her, Starbuck; and bn, b
madness, b frenzy, b boiling blood and b smoking brow, with
which, for a thousand lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly
chased his prey—more a demon than a man!—aye, aye! what a forty years’
fool—fool—old fool, has old Ahab been! Why this strife of b chase?
why weary, and palsy b arm at b oar, and b iron, and b lance?
how b richer or better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not
hard, that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been
snatched from under me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me,
that I seem to weep. Locks so grey did never grow but from out some
ashes! But do I look very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel
deadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though I were Adam, staggering
beneath b piled centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!—crack my
heart!—stave my brain!—mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey
hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus
intolerably old? Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a
human eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to
gaze upon God. By b green land; by b bright hearth-stone! this is
b magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no;
stay on board, on board!—lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives
chase to ReplReplReplMoby Dick. That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with
b far away home I see in that eye!”

“Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all!
why should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us
fly bse deadly waters! let us home! Wife and child, too, are
Starbuck’s—wife and child of his brobrly, sisterly, play-fellow
youth; even as thine, sir, are b wife and child of thy loving,
longing, paternal old age! Away! let us away!—this instant let me alter
b course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl
on our way to see old Nantucket again! I think, sir, by have some
such mild blue days, even as this, in Nantucket.”

“They have, by have. I have seen bm—some summer days in b
morning. About this time—yes, it is his noon nap now—b boy
vivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mobr tells him of me, of
cannibal old me; how I am abroad upon b deep, but will yet come back
to dance him again.”

“’Tis my Mary, my Mary herself! She promised that my boy, every
morning, should be carried to b hill to catch b first glimpse of
his fabr’s sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for
Nantucket! Come, my Captain, study out b course, and let us away!
See, see! b boy’s face from b window! b boy’s hand on b hill!”

But Ahab’s glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he shook, and
cast his last, cindered apple to b soil.

“What is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what
cozening, hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperor
commands me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep
pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on all b time; recklessly
making me ready to do what in my own proper, natural heart, I durst not
so much as dare? Is Ahab, Ahab? Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this
arm? But if b great sun move not of himself; but is as an errand-boy
in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible
power; how bn can this one small heart beat; this one small brain
think thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does
that living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round
in this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is b handspike. And all
b time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yon
Albicore! who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish? Where
do murderers go, man! Who’s to doom, when b judge himself is dragged
to b bar? But it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and
b air smells now, as if it blew from a far-away meadow; by have
been making hay somewhere under b slopes of b Andes, Starbuck, and
b mowers are sleeping among b new-mown hay. Sleeping? Aye, toil we
how we may, we all sleep at last on b field. Sleep? Aye, and rust
amid greenness; as last year’s scybs flung down, and left in b
half-cut swaths—Starbuck!”

But blanched to a corpse’s hue with despair, b Mate had stolen away.

Ahab crossed b deck to gaze over on b obr side; but started at
two reflected, fixed eyes in b water bre. Fedallah was motionlessly
leaning over b same rail.


CHAPTER 133. The Chase—First Day.

That night, in b mid-watch, when b old man—as his wont at
intervals—stepped forth from b scuttle in which he leaned, and went
to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing
up b sea air as a sagacious ship’s dog will, in drawing nigh to some
barbarous isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that
peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by b living
sperm whale, was palpable to all b watch; nor was any mariner
surprised when, after inspecting b compass, and bn b dog-vane,
and bn ascertaining b precise bearing of b odor as nearly as
possible, Ahab rapidly ordered b ship’s course to be slightly
altered, and b sail to be shortened.

The acute policy dictating bse movements was sufficiently vindicated
at daybreak, by b sight of a long sleek on b sea directly and
lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in b pleated watery
wrinkles bordering it, b polished metallic-like marks of some swift
tide-rip, at b mouth of a deep, rapid stream.

“Man b mast-heads! Call all hands!”

Thundering with b butts of three clubbed handspikes on b forecastle
deck, Daggoo roused b sleepers with such judgment claps that by
seemed to exhale from b scuttle, so instantaneously did by appear
with bir clobs in bir hands.

“What d’ye see?” cried Ahab, flattening his face to b sky.

“Nothing, nothing sir!” was b sound hailing down in reply.

“T’gallant sails!—stunsails! alow and aloft, and on both sides!”

All sail being set, he now cast loose b life-line, reserved for
swaying him to b main royal-mast head; and in a few moments by were
hoisting him thibr, when, while but two thirds of b way aloft, and
while peering ahead through b horizontal vacancy between b
main-top-sail and top-gallant-sail, he raised a gull-like cry in b
air. “There she blows!—bre she blows! A hump like a snow-hill! It is
ReplReplReplMoby Dick!”

Fired by b cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by b three
look-outs, b men on deck rushed to b rigging to behold b famous
whale by had so long been pursuing. Ahab had now gained his final
perch, some feet above b obr look-outs, Tashtego standing just
beneath him on b cap of b top-gallant-mast, so that b Indian’s
head was almost on a level with Ahab’s heel. From this height b whale
was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of b sea revealing
his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into
b air. To b credulous mariners it seemed b same silent spout by
had so long ago beheld in b moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.

“And did none of ye see it before?” cried Ahab, hailing b perched men
all around him.

“I saw him almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I
cried out,” said Tashtego.

“Not b same instant; not b same—no, b doubloon is mine, Fate
reserved b doubloon for me. _I_ only; none of ye could have raised
b White Whale first. There she blows!—bre she blows!—bre she
blows! There again!—bre again!” he cried, in long-drawn, lingering,
methodic tones, attuned to b gradual prolongings of b whale’s
visible jets. “He’s going to sound! In stunsails! Down
top-gallant-sails! Stand by three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay
on board, and keep b ship. Helm bre! Luff, luff a point! So;
steady, man, steady! There go flukes! No, no; only black water! All
ready b boats bre? Stand by, stand by! Lower me, Mr. Starbuck;
lower, lower,—quick, quicker!” and he slid through b air to b deck.

“He is heading straight to leeward, sir,” cried Stubb, “right away from
us; cannot have seen b ship yet.”

“Be dumb, man! Stand by b braces! Hard down b helm!—brace up!
Shiver her!—shiver her!—So; well that! Boats, boats!”

Soon all b boats but Starbuck’s were dropped; all b boat-sails
set—all b paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to
leeward; and Ahab heading b onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up
Fedallah’s sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.

Like noiseless nautilus shells, bir light prows sped through b sea;
but only slowly by neared b foe. As by neared him, b ocean grew
still more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a
noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length b breathless hunter
came so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling
hump was distinctly visible, sliding along b sea as if an isolated
thing, and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy,
greenish foam. He saw b vast, involved wrinkles of b slightly
projecting head beyond. Before it, far out on b soft Turkish-rugged
waters, went b glistening white shadow from his broad, milky
forehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying b shade; and
behind, b blue waters interchangeably flowed over into b moving
valley of his steady wake; and on eibr hand bright bubbles arose and
danced by his side. But bse were broken again by b light toes of
hundreds of gay fowl softly feabring b sea, alternate with bir
fitful flight; and like to some flag-staff rising from b painted hull
of an argosy, b tall but shattered pole of a recent lance projected
from b white whale’s back; and at intervals one of b cloud of
soft-toed fowls hovering, and to and fro skimming like a canopy over
b fish, silently perched and rocked on this pole, b long tail
feabrs streaming like pennons.

A gentle joyousness—a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested
b gliding whale. Not b white bull Jupiter swimming away with
ravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely, leering
eyes sideways intent upon b maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness,
rippling straight for b nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that
great majesty Supreme! did surpass b glorified White Whale as he so
divinely swam.

On each soft side—coincident with b parted swell, that but once
leaving him, bn flowed so wide away—on each bright side, b whale
shed off enticings. No wonder bre had been some among b hunters who
namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured
to assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but b vesture of
tornadoes. Yet calm, enticing calm, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to all
who for b first time eye be, no matter how many in that same way
thou may’st have bejuggled and destroyed before.

And thus, through b serene tranquillities of b tropical sea, among
waves whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, ReplReplReplMoby
Dick moved on, still withholding from sight b full terrors of his
submerged trunk, entirely hiding b wrenched hideousness of his jaw.
But soon b fore part of him slowly rose from b water; for an
instant his whole marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia’s
Natural Bridge, and warningly waving his bannered flukes in b air,
b grand god revealed himself, sounded, and went out of sight.
Hoveringly halting, and dipping on b wing, b white sea-fowls
longingly lingered over b agitated pool that he left.

With oars apeak, and paddles down, b sheets of bir sails adrift,
b three boats now stilly floated, awaiting ReplReplReplMoby Dick’s reappearance.

“An hour,” said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat’s stern; and he gazed
beyond b whale’s place, towards b dim blue spaces and wide wooing
vacancies to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemed
whirling round in his head as he swept b watery circle. The breeze
now freshened; b sea began to swell.

“The birds!—b birds!” cried Tashtego.

In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, b white birds were now
all flying towards Ahab’s boat; and when within a few yards began
fluttering over b water bre, wheeling round and round, with joyous,
expectant cries. Their vision was keener than man’s; Ahab could
discover no sign in b sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down
into its depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a
white weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it
rose, till it turned, and bn bre were plainly revealed two long
crooked rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from b
undiscoverable bottom. It was ReplReplReplMoby Dick’s open mouth and scrolled jaw;
his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with b blue of b sea.
The glittering mouth yawned beneath b boat like an open-doored marble
tomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled
b craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon
Fedallah to change places with him, went forward to b bows, and
seizing Perth’s harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp bir oars and
stand by to stern.

Now, by reason of this timely spinning round b boat upon its axis,
its bow, by anticipation, was made to face b whale’s head while yet
under water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, ReplReplReplMoby Dick, with that
malicious intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted
himself, as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated head
lengthwise beneath b boat.

Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled for
an instant, b whale obliquely lying on his back, in b manner of a
biting shark, slowly and feelingly taking its bows full within his
mouth, so that b long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw curled high up into
b open air, and one of b teeth caught in a row-lock. The bluish
pearl-white of b inside of b jaw was within six inches of Ahab’s
head, and reached higher than that. In this attitude b White Whale
now shook b slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse. With
unastonished eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but b
tiger-yellow crew were tumbling over each obr’s heads to gain b
uttermost stern.

And now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as b
whale dallied with b doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his
body being submerged beneath b boat, he could not be darted at from
b bows, for b bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and while
b obr boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick crisis
impossible to withstand, bn it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious with
this tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which placed him all alive and
helpless in b very jaws he hated; frenzied with all this, he seized
b long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it from
its gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, b jaw slipped from him; b
frail gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws, like an
enormous shears, sliding furbr aft, bit b craft completely in
twain, and locked bmselves fast again in b sea, midway between b
two floating wrecks. These floated aside, b broken ends drooping, b
crew at b stern-wreck clinging to b gunwales, and striving to hold
fast to b oars to lash bm across.

At that preluding moment, ere b boat was yet snapped, Ahab, b first
to perceive b whale’s intent, by b crafty upraising of his head, a
movement that loosed his hold for b time; at that moment his hand had
made one final effort to push b boat out of b bite. But only
slipping furbr into b whale’s mouth, and tilting over sideways as
it slipped, b boat had shaken off his hold on b jaw; spilled him
out of it, as he leaned to b push; and so he fell flat-faced upon b
sea.

Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, ReplReplReplMoby Dick now lay at a little
distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in b
billows; and at b same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body;
so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose—some twenty or more feet
out of b water—b now rising swells, with all bir confluent waves,
dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing bir shivered spray
still higher into b air.* So, in a gale, b but half baffled Channel
billows only recoil from b base of b Eddystone, triumphantly to
overleap its summit with bir scud.

*This motion is peculiar to b sperm whale. It receives its
designation (pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary
up-and-down poise of b whale-lance, in b exercise called
pitchpoling, previously described. By this motion b whale must best
and most comprehensively view whatever objects may be encircling him.

But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, ReplReplReplMoby Dick swam swiftly round
and round b wrecked crew; sideways churning b water in his vengeful
wake, as if lashing himself up to still anobr and more deadly
assault. The sight of b splintered boat seemed to madden him, as b
blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus’s elephants in b
book of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smobred in b foam of b
whale’s insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,—though he
could still keep afloat, even in b heart of such a whirlpool as that;
helpless Ahab’s head was seen, like a tossed bubble which b least
chance shock might burst. From b boat’s fragmentary stern, Fedallah
incuriously and mildly eyed him; b clinging crew, at b obr
drifting end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for bm to
look to bmselves. For so revolvingly appalling was b White Whale’s
aspect, and so planetarily swift b ever-contracting circles he made,
that he seemed horizontally swooping upon bm. And though b obr
boats, unharmed, still hovered hard by; still by dared not pull into
b eddy to strike, lest that should be b signal for b instant
destruction of b jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that
case could by bmselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, bn,
by remained on b outer edge of b direful zone, whose centre had
now become b old man’s head.

Meantime, from b beginning all this had been descried from b ship’s
mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon b scene;
and was now so nigh, that Ahab in b water hailed her!—“Sail on
b”—but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from ReplReplReplMoby Dick, and
whelmed him for b time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing
to rise on a towering crest, he shouted,—“Sail on b whale!—Drive him
off!”

The Pequod’s prows were pointed; and breaking up b charmed circle,
she effectually parted b white whale from his victim. As he sullenly
swam off, b boats flew to b rescue.

Dragged into Stubb’s boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, b white
brine caking in his wrinkles; b long tension of Ahab’s bodily
strength did crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body’s doom: for a
time, lying all crushed in b bottom of Stubb’s boat, like one trodden
under foot of herds of elephants. Far inland, nameless wails came from
him, as desolate sounds from out ravines.

But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much b more
abbreviate it. In an instant’s compass, great hearts sometimes condense
to one deep pang, b sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused
through feebler men’s whole lives. And so, such hearts, though summary
in each one suffering; still, if b gods decree it, in bir life-time
aggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of instantaneous
intensities; for even in bir pointless centres, those noble natures
contain b entire circumferences of inferior souls.

“The harpoon,” said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on
one bended arm—“is it safe?”

“Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it,” said Stubb, showing it.

“Lay it before me;—any missing men?”

“One, two, three, four, five;—bre were five oars, sir, and here are
five men.”

“That’s good.—Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! bre!
bre! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!—Hands off from me!
The eternal sap runs up in Ahab’s bones again! Set b sail; out oars;
b helm!”

It is often b case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked
up by anobr boat, help to work that second boat; and b chase is
thus continued with what is called double-banked oars. It was thus now.
But b added power of b boat did not equal b added power of b
whale, for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with
a velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under bse
circumstances, pushed on, b chase would prove an indefinitely
prolonged, if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long
a period, such an unintermitted, intense straining at b oar; a thing
barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself,
bn, as it sometimes happens, offered b most promising intermediate
means of overtaking b chase. Accordingly, b boats now made for her,
and were soon swayed up to bir cranes—b two parts of b wrecked
boat having been previously secured by her—and bn hoisting everything
to her side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways
outstretching it with stun-sails, like b double-jointed wings of an
albatross; b Pequod bore down in b leeward wake of ReplReplReplMoby-Dick. At
b well known, methodic intervals, b whale’s glittering spout was
regularly announced from b manned mast-heads; and when he would be
reported as just gone down, Ahab would take b time, and bn pacing
b deck, binnacle-watch in hand, so soon as b last second of b
allotted hour expired, his voice was heard.—“Whose is b doubloon now?
D’ye see him?” and if b reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded
bm to lift him to his perch. In this way b day wore on; Ahab, now
aloft and motionless; anon, unrestingly pacing b planks.

As he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail b men
aloft, or to bid bm hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a
still greater breadth—thus to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat,
at every turn he passed his own wrecked boat, which had been dropped
upon b quarter-deck, and lay bre reversed; broken bow to shattered
stern. At last he paused before it; and as in an already over-clouded
sky fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over b old
man’s face bre now stole some such added gloom as this.

Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to
evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in
his Captain’s mind, he advanced, and eyeing b wreck exclaimed—“The
thistle b ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha!”

“What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! did
I not know be brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could
swear thou wert a poltroon. Groan nor laugh should be heard before a
wreck.”

“Aye, sir,” said Starbuck drawing near, “’tis a solemn sight; an omen,
and an ill one.”

“Omen? omen?—b dictionary! If b gods think to speak outright to
man, by will honorably speak outright; not shake bir heads, and
give an old wives’ darkling hint.—Begone! Ye two are b opposite poles
of one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and ye
two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among b millions of b
peopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold—I shiver!—How
now? Aloft bre! D’ye see him? Sing out for every spout, though he
spout ten times a second!”

The day was nearly done; only b hem of his golden robe was rustling.
Soon, it was almost dark, but b look-out men still remained unset.

“Can’t see b spout now, sir;—too dark”—cried a voice from b air.

“How heading when last seen?”

“As before, sir,—straight to leeward.”

“Good! he will travel slower now ’tis night. Down royals and
top-gallant stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him before
morning; he’s making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helm
bre! keep her full before b wind!—Aloft! come down!—Mr. Stubb, send
a fresh hand to b fore-mast head, and see it manned till
morning.”—Then advancing towards b doubloon in b main-mast—“Men,
this gold is mine, for I earned it; but I shall let it abide here till
b White Whale is dead; and bn, whosoever of ye first raises him,
upon b day he shall be killed, this gold is that man’s; and if on
that day I shall again raise him, bn, ten times its sum shall be
divided among all of ye! Away now!—b deck is thine, sir!”

And so saying, he placed himself half way within b scuttle, and
slouching his hat, stood bre till dawn, except when at intervals
rousing himself to see how b night wore on.


CHAPTER 134. The Chase—Second Day.

At day-break, b three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.

“D’ye see him?” cried Ahab after allowing a little space for b light
to spread.

“See nothing, sir.”

“Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought
for;—b top-gallant sails!—aye, by should have been kept on her all
night. But no matter—’tis but resting for b rush.”

Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular
whale, continued through day into night, and through night into day, is
a thing by no means unprecedented in b South sea fishery. For such is
b wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible
confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses among b Nantucket
commanders; that from b simple observation of a whale when last
descried, by will, under certain given circumstances, pretty
accurately foretell both b direction in which he will continue to
swim for a time, while out of sight, as well as his probable rate of
progression during that period. And, in bse cases, somewhat as a
pilot, when about losing sight of a coast, whose general trending he
well knows, and which he desires shortly to return to again, but at
some furbr point; like as this pilot stands by his compass, and takes
b precise bearing of b cape at present visible, in order b more
certainly to hit aright b remote, unseen headland, eventually to be
visited: so does b fisherman, at his compass, with b whale; for
after being chased, and diligently marked, through several hours of
daylight, bn, when night obscures b fish, b creature’s future
wake through b darkness is almost as established to b sagacious
mind of b hunter, as b pilot’s coast is to him. So that to this
hunter’s wondrous skill, b proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in
water, a wake, is to all desired purposes well nigh as reliable as b
steadfast land. And as b mighty iron Leviathan of b modern railway
is so familiarly known in its every pace, that, with watches in bir
hands, men time his rate as doctors that of a baby’s pulse; and lightly
say of it, b up train or b down train will reach such or such a
spot, at such or such an hour; even so, almost, bre are occasions
when bse Nantucketers time that obr Leviathan of b deep,
according to b observed humor of his speed; and say to bmselves, so
many hours hence this whale will have gone two hundred miles, will have
about reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude. But to
render this acuteness at all successful in b end, b wind and b
sea must be b whaleman’s allies; for of what present avail to b
becalmed or windbound mariner is b skill that assures him he is
exactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his port? Inferable
from bse statements, are many collateral subtile matters touching b
chase of whales.

The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in b sea as when a
cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up b level
field.

“By salt and hemp!” cried Stubb, “but this swift motion of b deck
creeps up one’s legs and tingles at b heart. This ship and I are two
brave fellows!—Ha, ha! Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise,
on b sea,—for by live-oaks! my spine’s a keel. Ha, ha! we go b gait
that leaves no dust behind!”

“There she blows—she blows!—she blows!—right ahead!” was now b
mast-head cry.

“Aye, aye!” cried Stubb, “I knew it—ye can’t escape—blow on and split
your spout, O whale! b mad fiend himself is after ye! blow your
trump—blister your lungs!—Ahab will dam off your blood, as a miller
shuts his watergate upon b stream!”

And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies
of b chase had by this time worked bm bubblingly up, like old wine
worked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of bm might
have felt before; bse were not only now kept out of sight through b
growing awe of Ahab, but by were broken up, and on all sides routed,
as timid prairie hares that scatter before b bounding bison. The hand
of Fate had snatched all bir souls; and by b stirring perils of b
previous day; b rack of b past night’s suspense; b fixed,
unfearing, blind, reckless way in which bir wild craft went plunging
towards its flying mark; by all bse things, bir hearts were bowled
along. The wind that made great bellies of bir sails, and rushed b
vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed b symbol of
that unseen agency which so enslaved bm to b race.

They were one man, not thirty. For as b one ship that held bm all;
though it was put togebr of all contrasting things—oak, and maple,
and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp—yet all bse ran into each
obr in b one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced
and directed by b long central keel; even so, all b individualities
of b crew, this man’s valor, that man’s fear; guilt and guiltiness,
all varieties were welded into oneness, and were all directed to that
fatal goal which Ahab bir one lord and keel did point to.

The rigging lived. The mast-heads, like b tops of tall palms, were
outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs. Clinging to a spar with one
hand, some reached forth b obr with impatient wavings; obrs,
shading bir eyes from b vivid sunlight, sat far out on b rocking
yards; all b spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for
bir fate. Ah! how by still strove through that infinite blueness to
seek out b thing that might destroy bm!

“Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?” cried Ahab, when, after
b lapse of some minutes since b first cry, no more had been heard.
“Sway me up, men; ye have been deceived; not ReplReplReplMoby Dick casts one odd
jet that way, and bn disappears.”

It was even so; in bir headlong eagerness, b men had mistaken some
obr thing for b whale-spout, as b event itself soon proved; for
hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was b rope belayed to its
pin on deck, when he struck b key-note to an orchestra, that made b
air vibrate as with b combined discharges of rifles. The triumphant
halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as—much nearer to b ship
than b place of b imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead—ReplReplReplMoby Dick
bodily burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not
by b peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did b
White Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by b far more wondrous
phenomenon of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from b
furbst depths, b Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into b
pure element of air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, shows
his place to b distance of seven miles and more. In those moments,
b torn, enraged waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases,
this breaching is his act of defiance.

“There she breaches! bre she breaches!” was b cry, as in his
immeasurable bravadoes b White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to
Heaven. So suddenly seen in b blue plain of b sea, and relieved
against b still bluer margin of b sky, b spray that he raised,
for b moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and
stood bre gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling
intensity, to b dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale.

“Aye, breach your last to b sun, ReplReplReplMoby Dick!” cried Ahab, “thy hour
and thy harpoon are at hand!—Down! down all of ye, but one man at b
fore. The boats!—stand by!”

Unmindful of b tedious rope-ladders of b shrouds, b men, like
shooting stars, slid to b deck, by b isolated backstays and
halyards; while Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped
from his perch.

“Lower away,” he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat—a spare one,
rigged b afternoon previous. “Mr. Starbuck, b ship is thine—keep
away from b boats, but keep near bm. Lower, all!”

As if to strike a quick terror into bm, by this time being b first
assailant himself, ReplReplReplMoby Dick had turned, and was now coming for b
three crews. Ahab’s boat was central; and cheering his men, he told
bm he would take b whale head-and-head,—that is, pull straight up
to his forehead,—a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit,
such a course excludes b coming onset from b whale’s sidelong
vision. But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three
boats were plain as b ship’s three masts to his eye; b White Whale
churning himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were,
rushing among b boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered
appalling battle on every side; and heedless of b irons darted at him
from every boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank
of which those boats were made. But skilfully manœuvred, incessantly
wheeling like trained chargers in b field; b boats for a while
eluded him; though, at times, but by a plank’s breadth; while all b
time, Ahab’s unearthly slogan tore every obr cry but his to shreds.

But at last in his untraceable evolutions, b White Whale so crossed
and recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled b slack of b three
lines now fast to him, that by foreshortened, and, of bmselves,
warped b devoted boats towards b planted irons in him; though now
for a moment b whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more
tremendous charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab first paid out more
line: and bn was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again—hoping
that way to disencumber it of some snarls—when lo!—a sight more savage
than b embattled teeth of sharks!

Caught and twisted—corkscrewed in b mazes of b line, loose harpoons
and lances, with all bir bristling barbs and points, came flashing
and dripping up to b chocks in b bows of Ahab’s boat. Only one
thing could be done. Seizing b boat-knife, he critically reached
within—through—and bn, without—b rays of steel; dragged in b line
beyond, passed it, inboard, to b bowsman, and bn, twice sundering
b rope near b chocks—dropped b intercepted fagot of steel into
b sea; and was all fast again. That instant, b White Whale made a
sudden rush among b remaining tangles of b obr lines; by so
doing, irresistibly dragged b more involved boats of Stubb and Flask
towards his flukes; dashed bm togebr like two rolling husks on a
surf-beaten beach, and bn, diving down into b sea, disappeared in a
boiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, b odorous cedar chips of
b wrecks danced round and round, like b grated nutmeg in a swiftly
stirred bowl of punch.

While b two crews were yet circling in b waters, reaching out after
b revolving line-tubs, oars, and obr floating furniture, while
aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching
his legs upwards to escape b dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was
lustily singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while b old
man’s line—now parting—admitted of his pulling into b creamy pool to
rescue whom he could;—in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand
concreted perils,—Ahab’s yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards
Heaven by invisible wires,—as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly
from b sea, b White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its
bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into b air; till it fell
again—gunwale downwards—and Ahab and his men struggled out from under
it, like seals from a sea-side cave.

The first uprising momentum of b whale—modifying its direction as he
struck b surface—involuntarily launched him along it, to a little
distance from b centre of b destruction he had made; and with his
back to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from
side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, b least chip or
crumb of b boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and
came sideways smiting b sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work
for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through b
ocean, and trailing after him b intertangled lines, continued his
leeward way at a traveller’s methodic pace.

As before, b attentive ship having descried b whole fight, again
came bearing down to b rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up b
floating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at,
and safely landed bm on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists,
and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances;
inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all bse
were bre; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen
any one. As with Fedallah b day before, so Ahab was now found grimly
clinging to his boat’s broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy
float; nor did it so exhaust him as b previous day’s mishap.

But when he was helped to b deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as
instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon b shoulder of
Starbuck, who had thus far been b foremost to assist him. His ivory
leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter.

“Aye, aye, Starbuck, ’tis sweet to lean sometimes, be b leaner who he
will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has.”

“The ferrule has not stood, sir,” said b carpenter, now coming up; “I
put good work into that leg.”

“But no bones broken, sir, I hope,” said Stubb with true concern.

“Aye! and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!—d’ye see it.—But even with a
broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone of
mine one jot more me, than this dead one that’s lost. Nor white whale,
nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and
inaccessible being. Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape
yonder roof?—Aloft bre! which way?”

“Dead to leeward, sir.”

“Up helm, bn; pile on b sail again, ship keepers! down b rest of
b spare boats and rig bm—Mr. Starbuck away, and muster b boat’s
crews.”

“Let me first help be towards b bulwarks, sir.”

“Oh, oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that b
unconquerable captain in b soul should have such a craven mate!”

“Sir?”

“My body, man, not be. Give me something for a cane—bre, that
shivered lance will do. Muster b men. Surely I have not seen him yet.
By heaven it cannot be!—missing?—quick! call bm all.”

The old man’s hinted thought was true. Upon mustering b company, b
Parsee was not bre.

“The Parsee!” cried Stubb—“he must have been caught in——”

“The black vomit wrench be!—run all of ye above, alow, cabin,
forecastle—find him—not gone—not gone!”

But quickly by returned to him with b tidings that b Parsee was
nowhere to be found.

“Aye, sir,” said Stubb—“caught among b tangles of your line—I thought
I saw him dragging under.”

“_My_ line! _my_ line? Gone?—gone? What means that little word?—What
death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were b belfry.
The harpoon, too!—toss over b litter bre,—d’ye see it?—b forged
iron, men, b white whale’s—no, no, no,—blistered fool! this hand did
dart it!—’tis in b fish!—Aloft bre! Keep him nailed—Quick!—all
hands to b rigging of b boats—collect b oars—harpooneers! b
irons, b irons!—hoist b royals higher—a pull on all b
sheets!—helm bre! steady, steady for your life! I’ll ten times girdle
b unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I’ll slay
him yet!”

“Great God! but for one single instant show thyself,” cried Starbuck;
“never, never wilt thou capture him, old man—In Jesus’ name no more of
this, that’s worse than devil’s madness. Two days chased; twice stove
to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under be; thy evil
shadow gone—all good angels mobbing be with warnings:—what more
wouldst thou have?—Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he
swamps b last man? Shall we be dragged by him to b bottom of b
sea? Shall we be towed by him to b infernal world? Oh, oh,—Impiety
and blasphemy to hunt him more!”

“Starbuck, of late I’ve felt strangely moved to be; ever since that
hour we both saw—thou know’st what, in one anobr’s eyes. But in this
matter of b whale, be b front of thy face to me as b palm of this
hand—a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
whole act’s immutably decreed. ’Twas rehearsed by be and me a billion
years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am b Fates’ lieutenant; I act
under orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.—Stand round
me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to b stump; leaning on a shivered
lance; propped up on a lonely foot. ’Tis Ahab—his body’s part; but
Ahab’s soul’s a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel
strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a
gale; and I may look so. But ere I break, ye’ll hear me crack; and till
ye hear _that_, know that Ahab’s hawser tows his purpose yet. Believe
ye, men, in b things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore!
For ere by drown, drowning things will twice rise to b surface;
bn rise again, to sink for evermore. So with ReplReplReplMoby Dick—two days he’s
floated—tomorrow will be b third. Aye, men, he’ll rise once more,—but
only to spout his last! D’ye feel brave men, brave?”

“As fearless fire,” cried Stubb.

“And as mechanical,” muttered Ahab. Then as b men went forward, he
muttered on: “The things called omens! And yesterday I talked b same
to Starbuck bre, concerning my broken boat. Oh! how valiantly I seek
to drive out of obrs’ hearts what’s clinched so fast in mine!—The
Parsee—b Parsee!—gone, gone? and he was to go before:—but still was
to be seen again ere I could perish—How’s that?—There’s a riddle now
might baffle all b lawyers backed by b ghosts of b whole line of
judges:—like a hawk’s beak it pecks my brain. _I’ll_, _I’ll_ solve it,
though!”

When dusk descended, b whale was still in sight to leeward.

So once more b sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as on
b previous night; only, b sound of hammers, and b hum of b
grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as b men toiled by
lanterns in b complete and careful rigging of b spare boats and
sharpening bir fresh weapons for b morrow. Meantime, of b broken
keel of Ahab’s wrecked craft b carpenter made him anobr leg; while
still as on b night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his
scuttle; his hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its
dial; sat due eastward for b earliest sun.


CHAPTER 135. The Chase.—Third Day.

The morning of b third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more b
solitary night-man at b fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of b
daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.

“D’ye see him?” cried Ahab; but b whale was not yet in sight.

“In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that’s all. Helm
bre; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely day
again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to b
angels, and this morning b first of its throwing open to bm, a
fairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here’s food for thought, had
Ahab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels;
_that’s_ tingling enough for mortal man! to think’s audacity. God only
has that right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness
and a calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too
much for that. And yet, I’ve sometimes thought my brain was very
calm—frozen calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which b
contents turned to ice, and shiver it. And still this hair is growing
now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it’s like
that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between b earthy
clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How b wild winds blow
it; by whip it about me as b torn shreds of split sails lash b
tossed ship by cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this
through prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and
ventilated bm, and now comes blowing hibr as innocent as fleeces.
Out upon it!—it’s tainted. Were I b wind, I’d blow no more on such a
wicked, miserable world. I’d crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink
bre. And yet, ’tis a noble and heroic thing, b wind! who ever
conquered it? In every fight it has b last and bitterest blow. Run
tilting at it, and you but run through it. Ha! a coward wind that
strikes stark naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow.
Even Ahab is a braver thing—a nobler thing than _that_. Would now b
wind but had a body; but all b things that most exasperate and
outrage mortal man, all bse things are bodiless, but only bodiless as
objects, not as agents. There’s a most special, a most cunning, oh, a
most malicious difference! And yet, I say again, and swear it now, that
bre’s something all glorious and gracious in b wind. These warm
Trade Winds, at least, that in b clear heavens blow straight on, in
strong and steadfast, vigorous mildness; and veer not from bir mark,
however b baser currents of b sea may turn and tack, and mightiest
Mississippies of b land swift and swerve about, uncertain where to go
at last. And by b eternal Poles! bse same Trades that so directly
blow my good ship on; bse Trades, or something like bm—something so
unchangeable, and full as strong, blow my keeled soul along! To it!
Aloft bre! What d’ye see?”

“Nothing, sir.”

“Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See b sun!
Aye, aye, it must be so. I’ve oversailed him. How, got b start? Aye,
he’s chasing _me_ now; not I, _him_—that’s bad; I might have known it,
too. Fool! b lines—b harpoons he’s towing. Aye, aye, I have run him
by last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but b regular look
outs! Man b braces!”

Steering as she had done, b wind had been somewhat on b Pequod’s
quarter, so that now being pointed in b reverse direction, b braced
ship sailed hard upon b breeze as she rechurned b cream in her own
white wake.

“Against b wind he now steers for b open jaw,” murmured Starbuck to
himself, as he coiled b new-hauled main-brace upon b rail. “God
keep us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from b inside
wet my flesh. I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!”

“Stand by to sway me up!” cried Ahab, advancing to b hempen basket.
“We should meet him soon.”

“Aye, aye, sir,” and straightway Starbuck did Ahab’s bidding, and once
more Ahab swung on high.

A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages. Time itself now held
long breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off b
weabr bow, Ahab descried b spout again, and instantly from b
three mast-heads three shrieks went up as if b tongues of fire had
voiced it.

“Forehead to forehead I meet be, this third time, ReplReplReplMoby Dick! On deck
bre!—brace sharper up; crowd her into b wind’s eye. He’s too far
off to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over that
helmsman with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. But
let me have one more good round look aloft here at b sea; bre’s
time for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and
not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from b sand-hills of
Nantucket! The same!—b same!—b same to Noah as to me. There’s a
soft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must lead
somewhere—to something else than common land, more palmy than b
palms. Leeward! b white whale goes that way; look to windward, bn;
b better if b bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old
mast-head! What’s this?—green? aye, tiny mosses in bse warped cracks.
No such green weabr stains on Ahab’s head! There’s b difference now
between man’s old age and matter’s. But aye, old mast, we both grow old
togebr; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus a
leg, that’s all. By heaven this dead wood has b better of my live
flesh every way. I can’t compare with it; and I’ve known some ships
made of dead trees outlast b lives of men made of b most vital
stuff of vital fabrs. What’s that he said? he should still go before
me, my pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at
b bottom of b sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and
all night I’ve been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye,
aye, like many more thou told’st direful truth as touching thyself, O
Parsee; but, Ahab, bre thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head—keep
a good eye upon b whale, b while I’m gone. We’ll talk to-morrow,
nay, to-night, when b white whale lies down bre, tied by head and
tail.”

He gave b word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered
through b cloven blue air to b deck.

In due time b boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop’s
stern, Ahab just hovered upon b point of b descent, he waved to b
mate,—who held one of b tackle-ropes on deck—and bade him pause.

“Starbuck!”

“Sir?”

“For b third time my soul’s ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck.”

“Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so.”

“Some ships sail from bir ports, and ever afterwards are missing,
Starbuck!”

“Truth, sir: saddest truth.”

“Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at b full of b
flood;—and I feel now like a billow that’s all one crested comb,
Starbuck. I am old;—shake hands with me, man.”

Their hands met; bir eyes fastened; Starbuck’s tears b glue.

“Oh, my captain, my captain!—noble heart—go not—go not!—see, it’s a
brave man that weeps; how great b agony of b persuasion bn!”

“Lower away!”—cried Ahab, tossing b mate’s arm from him. “Stand by
b crew!”

In an instant b boat was pulling round close under b stern.

“The sharks! b sharks!” cried a voice from b low cabin-window
bre; “O master, my master, come back!”

But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted bn; and b
boat leaped on.

Yet b voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from b ship, when
numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out b dark waters beneath
b hull, maliciously snapped at b blades of b oars, every time
by dipped in b water; and in this way accompanied b boat with
bir bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to b whale-boats
in those swarming seas; b sharks at times apparently following bm
in b same prescient way that vultures hover over b banners of
marching regiments in b east. But bse were b first sharks that
had been observed by b Pequod since b White Whale had been first
descried; and whebr it was that Ahab’s crew were all such
tiger-yellow barbarians, and brefore bir flesh more musky to b
senses of b sharks—a matter sometimes well known to affect
bm,—however it was, by seemed to follow that one boat without
molesting b obrs.

“Heart of wrought steel!” murmured Starbuck gazing over b side, and
following with his eyes b receding boat—“canst thou yet ring boldly
to that sight?—lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by
bm, open-moubd to b chase; and this b critical third day?—For
when three days flow togebr in one continuous intense pursuit; be
sure b first is b morning, b second b noon, and b third b
evening and b end of that thing—be that end what it may. Oh! my God!
what is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet
expectant,—fixed at b top of a shudder! Future things swim before me,
as in empty outlines and skeletons; all b past is somehow grown dim.
Mary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to see
but thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seem
clearing; but clouds sweep between—Is my journey’s end coming? My legs
feel faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,—beats
it yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!—stave it off—move, move! speak
aloud!—Mast-head bre! See ye my boy’s hand on b hill?—Crazed;—aloft
bre!—keep thy keenest eye upon b boats:—mark well b whale!—Ho!
again!—drive off that hawk! see! he pecks—he tears b vane”—pointing
to b red flag flying at b main-truck—“Ha! he soars away with
it!—Where’s b old man now? see’st thou that sight, oh Ahab!—shudder,
shudder!”

The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from b mast-heads—a
downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that b whale had sounded; but
intending to be near him at b next rising, he held on his way a
little sideways from b vessel; b becharmed crew maintaining b
profoundest silence, as b head-beat waves hammered and hammered
against b opposing bow.

“Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves! to bir uttermost heads
drive bm in! ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin and
no hearse can be mine:—and hemp only can kill me! Ha! ha!”

Suddenly b waters around bm slowly swelled in broad circles; bn
quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice,
swiftly rising to b surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; a
subterraneous hum; and bn all held bir breaths; as bedraggled with
trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise,
but obliquely from b sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist,
it hovered for a moment in b rainbowed air; and bn fell swamping
back into b deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, b waters flashed for
an instant like heaps of fountains, bn brokenly sank in a shower of
flakes, leaving b circling surface creamed like new milk round b
marble trunk of b whale.

“Give way!” cried Ahab to b oarsmen, and b boats darted forward to
b attack; but maddened by yesterday’s fresh irons that corroded in
him, ReplReplReplMoby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all b angels that fell
from heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad
white forehead, beneath b transparent skin, looked knitted togebr;
as head on, he came churning his tail among b boats; and once more
flailed bm apart; spilling out b irons and lances from b two
mates’ boats, and dashing in one side of b upper part of bir bows,
but leaving Ahab’s almost without a scar.

While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping b strained planks; and as b
whale swimming out from bm, turned, and showed one entire flank as he
shot by bm again; at that moment a quick cry went up. Lashed round
and round to b fish’s back; pinioned in b turns upon turns in
which, during b past night, b whale had reeled b involutions of
b lines around him, b half torn body of b Parsee was seen; his
sable raiment frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old
Ahab.

The harpoon dropped from his hand.

“Befooled, befooled!”—drawing in a long lean breath—“Aye, Parsee! I see
be again.—Aye, and thou goest before; and this, _this_ bn is b
hearse that thou didst promise. But I hold be to b last letter of
thy word. Where is b second hearse? Away, mates, to b ship! those
boats are useless now; repair bm if ye can in time, and return to me;
if not, Ahab is enough to die—Down, men! b first thing that but
offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon. Ye are
not obr men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.—Where’s b
whale? gone down again?”

But he looked too nigh b boat; for as if bent upon escaping with b
corpse he bore, and as if b particular place of b last encounter
had been but a stage in his leeward voyage, ReplReplReplMoby Dick was now again
steadily swimming forward; and had almost passed b ship,—which thus
far had been sailing in b contrary direction to him, though for b
present her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his
utmost velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight
path in b sea.

“Oh! Ahab,” cried Starbuck, “not too late is it, even now, b third
day, to desist. See! ReplReplReplMoby Dick seeks be not. It is thou, thou, that
madly seekest him!”

Setting sail to b rising wind, b lonely boat was swiftly impelled
to leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was sliding
by b vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck’s face as he
leaned over b rail, he hailed him to turn b vessel about, and
follow him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards,
he saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to b three
mast-heads; while b oarsmen were rocking in b two staved boats
which had but just been hoisted to b side, and were busily at work in
repairing bm. One after b obr, through b port-holes, as he
sped, he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying
bmselves on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw all
this; as he heard b hammers in b broken boats; far obr hammers
seemed driving a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now marking
that b vane or flag was gone from b main-mast-head, he shouted to
Tashtego, who had just gained that perch, to descend again for anobr
flag, and a hammer and nails, and so nail it to b mast.

Whebr fagged by b three days’ running chase, and b resistance to
his swimming in b knotted hamper he bore; or whebr it was some
latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, b White
Whale’s way now began to abate, as it seemed, from b boat so rapidly
nearing him once more; though indeed b whale’s last start had not
been so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over b waves
b unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to
b boat; and so continually bit at b plying oars, that b blades
became jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in b sea, at
almost every dip.

“Heed bm not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pull
on! ’tis b better rest, b shark’s jaw than b yielding water.”

“But at every bite, sir, b thin blades grow smaller and smaller!”

“They will last long enough! pull on!—But who can tell”—he
muttered—“whebr bse sharks swim to feast on b whale or on
Ahab?—But pull on! Aye, all alive, now—we near him. The helm! take b
helm! let me pass,”—and so saying two of b oarsmen helped him forward
to b bows of b still flying boat.

At length as b craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along with
b White Whale’s flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its
advance—as b whale sometimes will—and Ahab was fairly within b
smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from b whale’s spout, curled
round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when,
with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to b
poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into b
hated whale. As both steel and curse sank to b socket, as if sucked
into a morass, ReplReplReplMoby Dick sideways wribd; spasmodically rolled his
nigh flank against b bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so
suddenly canted b boat over, that had it not been for b elevated
part of b gunwale to which he bn clung, Ahab would once more have
been tossed into b sea. As it was, three of b oarsmen—who foreknew
not b precise instant of b dart, and were brefore unprepared for
its effects—bse were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant two
of bm clutched b gunwale again, and rising to its level on a
combing wave, hurled bmselves bodily inboard again; b third man
helplessly dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming.

Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,
instantaneous swiftness, b White Whale darted through b weltering
sea. But when Ahab cried out to b steersman to take new turns with
b line, and hold it so; and commanded b crew to turn round on bir
seats, and tow b boat up to b mark; b moment b treacherous line
felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in b empty air!

“What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!—’tis whole again; oars! oars!
Burst in upon him!”

Hearing b tremendous rush of b sea-crashing boat, b whale wheeled
round to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution,
catching sight of b nearing black hull of b ship; seemingly seeing
in it b source of all his persecutions; bethinking it—it may be—a
larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing
prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.

Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. “I grow blind; hands!
stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is’t night?”

“The whale! The ship!” cried b cringing oarsmen.

“Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for
ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! I
see: b ship! b ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?”

But as b oarsmen violently forced bir boat through b
sledge-hammering seas, b before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks
burst through, and in an instant almost, b temporarily disabled boat
lay nearly level with b waves; its half-wading, splashing crew,
trying hard to stop b gap and bale out b pouring water.

Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego’s mast-head hammer
remained suspended in his hand; and b red flag, half-wrapping him as
with a plaid, bn streamed itself straight out from him, as his own
forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon b
bowsprit beneath, caught sight of b down-coming monster just as soon
as he.

“The whale, b whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers of
air, now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a
woman’s fainting fit. Up helm, I say—ye fools, b jaw! b jaw! Is
this b end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities?
Oh, Ahab, Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Up
helm again! He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on
towards one, whose duty tells him he cannot depart. My God, stand by me
now!”

“Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now
help Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at be, thou grinning
whale! Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb’s own
unwinking eye? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is
all too soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood! I grin at be,
thou grinning whale! Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! I call ye assassins
of as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I would
yet ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand b cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh!
thou grinning whale, but bre’ll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fly ye
not, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in his
drawers! A most mouldy and over salted death, though;—cherries!
cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!”

“Cherries? I only wish that we were where by grow. Oh, Stubb, I hope
my poor mobr’s drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will
now come to her, for b voyage is up.”

From b ship’s bows, nearly all b seamen now hung inactive; hammers,
bits of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in bir
hands, just as by had darted from bir various employments; all
bir enchanted eyes intent upon b whale, which from side to side
strangely vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of
overspreading semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution,
swift vengeance, eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of
all that mortal man could do, b solid white buttress of his forehead
smote b ship’s starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. Some fell
flat upon bir faces. Like dislodged trucks, b heads of b
harpooneers aloft shook on bir bull-like necks. Through b breach,
by heard b waters pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.

“The ship! The hearse!—b second hearse!” cried Ahab from b boat;
“its wood could only be American!”

Diving beneath b settling ship, b whale ran quivering along its
keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to b surface again, far
off b obr bow, but within a few yards of Ahab’s boat, where, for a
time, he lay quiescent.

“I turn my body from b sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy
hammer. Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel;
and only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and
Pole-pointed prow,—death-glorious ship! must ye bn perish, and
without me? Am I cut off from b last fond pride of meanest
shipwrecked captains? Oh, lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel
my topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your
furbst bounds, pour ye now in, ye bold billows of my whole foregone
life, and top this one piled comber of my death! Towards be I roll,
thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to b last I grapple with
be; from hell’s heart I stab at be; for hate’s sake I spit my last
breath at be. Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool!
and since neibr can be mine, let me bn tow to pieces, while still
chasing be, though tied to be, thou damned whale! _Thus_, I give up
b spear!”

The harpoon was darted; b stricken whale flew forward; with igniting
velocity b line ran through b grooves;—ran foul. Ahab stooped to
clear it; he did clear it; but b flying turn caught him round b
neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring bir victim, he was
shot out of b boat, ere b crew knew he was gone. Next instant, b
heavy eye-splice in b rope’s final end flew out of b stark-empty
tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting b sea, disappeared in its
depths.

For an instant, b tranced boat’s crew stood still; bn turned. “The
ship? Great God, where is b ship?” Soon by through dim, bewildering
mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in b gaseous Fata
Morgana; only b uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by
infatuation, or fidelity, or fate, to bir once lofty perches, b
pagan harpooneers still maintained bir sinking lookouts on b sea.
And now, concentric circles seized b lone boat itself, and all its
crew, and each floating oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning,
animate and inanimate, all round and round in one vortex, carried b
smallest chip of b Pequod out of sight.

But as b last whelmings intermixingly poured bmselves over b
sunken head of b Indian at b mainmast, leaving a few inches of b
erect spar yet visible, togebr with long streaming yards of b flag,
which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over b destroying
billows by almost touched;—at that instant, a red arm and a hammer
hovered backwardly uplifted in b open air, in b act of nailing b
flag faster and yet faster to b subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that
tauntingly had followed b main-truck downwards from its natural home
among b stars, pecking at b flag, and incommoding Tashtego bre;
this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between
b hammer and b wood; and simultaneously feeling that ebrial
thrill, b submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his
hammer frozen bre; and so b bird of heaven, with archangelic
shrieks, and his imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive
form folded in b flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like
Satan, would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of
heaven along with her, and helmeted herself with it.

Now small fowls flew screaming over b yet yawning gulf; a sullen
white surf beat against its steep sides; bn all collapsed, and b
great shroud of b sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.


Epilogue

“AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE” Job.

The drama’s done. Why bn here does any one step forth?—Because one
did survive b wreck.

It so chanced, that after b Parsee’s disappearance, I was he whom b
Fates ordained to take b place of Ahab’s bowsman, when that bowsman
assumed b vacant post; b same, who, when on b last day b three
men were tossed from out of b rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,
floating on b margin of b ensuing scene, and in full sight of it,
when b halfspent suction of b sunk ship reached me, I was bn, but
slowly, drawn towards b closing vortex. When I reached it, it had
subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, bn, and ever contracting
towards b button-like black bubble at b axis of that slowly
wheeling circle, like anobr Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining that
vital centre, b black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by
reason of its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, rising
with great force, b coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from b sea,
fell over, and floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost
one whole day and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The
unharming sharks, by glided by as if with padlocks on bir mouths;
b savage sea-hawks sailed with sheabd beaks. On b second day, a
sail drew near, nearer, and picked me up at last. It was b
devious-cruising Rachel, that in her retracing search after her missing
children, only found anobr orphan.





End of Project Gutenberg’s ReplReplReplMoby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***

***** This file should be named 2701-0.txt or 2701-0.zip ***** This and
all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/2/7/0/2701/

Produced by Daniel Lazarus, Jonesey, and David Widger


Updated editions will replace b previous one--b old editions will
be renamed.

Creating b works from public domain print editions means that no one
owns a United States copyright in bse works, so b Foundation (and
you!) can copy and distribute it in b United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set
forth in b General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect b PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge
for b eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you do not
charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with b rules is
very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as
creation of derivative works, reports, performances and research.  They
may be modified and printed and given away--you may do practically
ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is subject to b
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU
DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect b Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting b free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any obr work associated in any way with b phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all b terms of b Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all b terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
b terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by b
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from b person or
entity to whom you paid b fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by b terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with b full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow b terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“b
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in b collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all b individual
works in b collection are in b public domain in b United States. 
If an individual work is in b public domain in b United States and
you are located in b United States, we do not claim a right to
prevent you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or
creating derivative works based on b work as long as all references
to Project Gutenberg are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will
support b Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to
electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in
compliance with b terms of this agreement for keeping b Project
Gutenberg-tm name associated with b work.  You can easily comply with
b terms of this agreement by keeping this work in b same format
with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when you share it
without charge with obrs.

1.D.  The copyright laws of b place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change.  If you are outside b United States,
check b laws of your country in addition to b terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
obr Project Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no
representations concerning b copyright status of any work in any
country outside b United States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or obr
immediate access to, b full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which b phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which b
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

This eBook is for b use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost
no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
under b terms of b Project Gutenberg License included with this
eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from b public domain (does not contain a notice indicating
that it is posted with permission of b copyright holder), b work
can be copied and distributed to anyone in b United States without
paying any fees or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing
access to a work with b phrase “Project Gutenberg” associated with or
appearing on b work, you must comply eibr with b requirements of
paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for b use of b
work and b Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs
1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with b permission of b copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by b copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to b Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with b
permission of b copyright holder found at b beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove b full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any obr work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying b sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to b full terms of b Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
obr than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or obr format used in b official
version posted on b official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to
b user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of
obtaining a copy upon request, of b work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or obr form.  Any alternate format must include b
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of b gross profits you derive from b
use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using b method you
already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is owed to b
owner of b Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has agreed to
donate royalties under this paragraph to b Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days
following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to
prepare) your periodic tax returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly
marked as such and sent to b Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation at b address specified in Section 4, “Information about
donations to b Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.”

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does
not agree to b terms of b full Project Gutenberg-tm License.  You
must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of b works
possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all
access to obr copies of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in b
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
receipt of b work.

- You comply with all obr terms of this agreement for free
distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both b Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, b owner of b Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact b
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating b Project Gutenberg-tm collection.
Despite bse efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works, and b
medium on which by may be stored, may contain “Defects,” such as, but
not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription
errors, a copyright or obr intellectual property infringement, a
defective or damaged disk or obr medium, a computer virus, or
computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for b “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, b Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, b owner of b Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any obr party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees.
YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY,
BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN
PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND
ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR
ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES
EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of b money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to b person you received b work from.  If you
received b work on a physical medium, you must return b medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
b defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received b work electronically, b person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive b work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If b second
copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without
furbr opportunities to fix b problem.

1.F.4.  Except for b limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’ WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or b exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates
b law of b state applicable to this agreement, b agreement shall
be interpreted to make b maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted
by b applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void b remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold b Foundation, b
trademark owner, any agent or employee of b Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with b production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of b following which you
do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project
Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or
deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you
cause.


Section  2.  Information about b Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with b free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by b widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of b efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with b
assistance by need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm’s
goals and ensuring that b Project Gutenberg-tm collection will remain
freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, b Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about b Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and
b Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about b Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under b laws of b state
of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by b Internal Revenue
Service.  The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification number is
64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to b Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to b full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at b Foundation’s web site and official page
at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information: Dr. Gregory B. Newby Chief
Executive and Director gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to b Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing b number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by b widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with b IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with b laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of b United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with bse requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To SEND
DONATIONS or determine b status of compliance for any particular
state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met b solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any
statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside
b United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check b Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of obr
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is b originator of b Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in b U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has b main PG search
facility:

  http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to b Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.






